>> WE ARE SEEING IN REAL TIME
HOW MUCH THIS WAR IS IMPACTING
STOCK MARKETS, BOND MARKETS,
AND ENERGY MARKETS.
>> WE ARE AT A POINT WHERE IT
IS ALL ABOUT ONE BIG TRADE.
>> YOU HAVE TO LOOK PAST THE
DAILY NEWS AND HEADLINES.
>> WE DO NOT KNOW WHAT
RESOLUTION LOOKS LIKE AT THIS
POINT.
>> IT IS NOT LIKE THIS IS A
FLIP OF A SWITCH.
>> THIS IS BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE WITH JONATHAN
FERRO , LISA ABRAMOWICZ, AND
ANNMARIE HORDERN. JONATHAN:
BLOOMBERG SURVEILLANCE STARTS
RIGHT NOW.
GOING INTO TUESDAY, HOPING TO
DE-ESCALATE.
>> MY WHOLE LIFE HAS BEEN IN
NEGOTIATION, BUT WITH IRAN WE
HAVE BEEN NEGOTIATING FOR A
LONG TIME AND THIS TIME THEY
MEAN BUSINESS.
THERE IS A GOOD CHANCE WE WILL
END UP IN A DEAL SO WE ARE
GIVING IT FIVE DAYS AND THEN WE
WILL SEE WHERE THAT TAKES US.
JONATHAN: OPTIMISM HANGING ON.
THE CHANNEL INDICATES SAUDI
ARABIA AND THE UAE ARE CLOSE TO
BEING PULLED IN.
CRUDE OIL IS HOLDING ONTO
TRIPLE DIGITS FOLLOWING STRIKES
ACROSS THE GULF.
THE TENSION IS FAR FROM OVER A.
>> WE HAVE SEEN ESCALATION WHEN
IT COMES TO MISSILE AND DRONE
ATTACKS.
WE HAVE THIS BECOMING A MORE
REGIONAL CONFLICT.
POTENTIALLY LOOKING TO SET
DETERRENT OR JOIN IN ATTACKS.
IF OUR POWER OR WATER PLANTS --
MAY THAT WOULD BE TIME TO JOIN.
THE IRAQIS ARE GOING TO GO
AFTER THE FINANCIAL TIES THIS
REGIME HAS IN HIS COUNTRY.
MORE COUNTRIES GET INVOLVED
AFTER THEIR STANCE HARDENED
TOWARD TEHRAN JONATHAN:
AND NOW WASHINGTON.
WE ARE ALL AT THE MERCY OF THE
TRUMP WHIPSAW.
THE RANGE WE HAVE SEEN IN THE
LAST 24 HOURS, S&P 500 FUTURES
YESTERDAY DOWN BY MORE THAN 1%
AND HIGHS UP BY CLOSE TO 3%, A
22 BASIS POINT RANGE ON A TWO
YEAR YIELD AND ON CRUDE, 101 TO
START THE WEEK. 84 AT THE LOW.
NOW WE ARE TALKING ABOUT A 24
HOUR TRADING RANGE.
>> ALL OF THIS BEING OFF SHOCK
AND AWE WHEN IT COMES TO TRUTH
SOCIAL POSTS.
THE PRESIDENT DID BRIEF
REPORTERS.
I WOULD NOT SAY THAT THERE ARE
NEGOTIATIONS.
THE IRANIANS SAID NO TALKS ARE
HAPPENING COMMIT MEETING NO
TALKS ARE HAPPENING DIRECTLY,
BUT THERE HAS BEEN REPORTING
ABOUT WHETHER TO TURKEY OR
PAKISTAN, THAT THEY ARE
INTERMEDIARIES WILLING TO STEP
IN NOW AND TALKING TO BOTH
SIDES.
ONE THING I HEAR FROM FORMER
OFFICIALS AS ANY TIME THIRD
PARTY GETS INVOLVED THEY TRY TO
EMBELLISH SO MAYBE THERE IS
SOME EMBELLISHING TO THE
WASHINGTON SIDE AND THE IRANIAN
SIDE, POTENTIALLY NO DIRECT
TALKS BUT THERE COULD BE A
DIPLOMATIC CHANNEL. JONATHAN:
SHOULD WE TAKE A BEAT ABOUT WHO
KNEW WHAT AND WHEN AHEAD OF THE
POST BY THE PRESIDENT YESTERDAY?
FUTURES CORRESPONDING TO AT
LEAST 6 MILLION HOURS ACCRUED
SOLD IN ABOUT TWO MINUTES COME
ABOUT 15 MINUTES BEFORE THE
POST FROM THE PRESIDENT
YESTERDAY.
THE AVERAGE OVER THE PREVIOUS
FIVE DAYS WAS 700,000 BARRELS,
A LOT MORE VOLUME, WAY MORE
THAN WE ARE TYPICALLY USED TWO
GOING INTO A MASSIVE MARKET
MOVING POST BY THE PRESIDENT.
ANNMARIE:
I HAVE GOTTEN A LOT OF OUTREACH
ABOUT THIS, INDIVIDUALS
MESSAGING ME AHEAD OF THE
POSTING BECAUSE OF THE WILD
MOVE , A RANGE WE NORMALLY SEE
IN 12 MONTHS WHITTLED DOWN TO
JUST MINUTES.
YOU HAVE TO WONDER WHO WOULD
HAVE BEEN AGGRESSIVE AT SELLING
FUTURES AT THAT POINT 15
MINUTES BEFORE TRUMP'S POST.
THIS IS WHAT EVERYONE IN
FINANCIAL MARKETS IS WONDERING.
JONATHAN:
EQUITY FUTURES JUST ABOUT
UNCHANGED ON THE S&P, NEGATIVE
BY 0.2 PERCENT.
COMING UP, WE WILL CATCH UP
WITH CAMERON DAWSON OF NEW AGE
WEALTH.
GOLDMAN SACHS IS RAISING ITS
PRICE TARGET. AND J.P.
MORGAN ASSET MANAGEMENT ON WHY
THE FED COULD STILL CUT RATES
THIS YEAR.
WE BEGIN WITH IRAN FIRING FRESH
ATTACKS ACROSS THE REGION AFTER
DENYING ATTACKS
ACROSS THE U.S..
JOINING US NOW IS JOUMANNA
BERCETCHE.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM, ALWAYS
LEANING ON YOUR EXPERTISE TO
UNDERSTAND THE REPORTING WE
HAVE SEEN SO FAR.
WHAT HIS REACTION IN THE REGION
TO THAT REPORTING?
>> IF I COULD SUMMARIZE THE
LAST 24 HOURS I WOULD SAY THERE
ARE TWO THINGS THAT HAVE
HAPPENED.
NUMBER ONE IS AN ATTEMPT TO
MOVE TOWARD DIPLOMACY AND
NUMBER TWO IS AN ATTEMPT TO
PERHAPS BRING DOWN THE
TEMPERATURE AND DE-ESCALATE AND
REMOVE THE IMMINENT THREAT OF
ATTACKING POWER PLANTS.
ONE THING THAT HE'S EMERGED IN
THE LAST 24 HOURS IS ATTACKING
POWER PLANTS, GOING AFTER
CIVILIAN INFRASTRUCTURE,
DESALINATION PLANTS, ALL THOSE
CONSTITUTE REDLINES AND FROM
OUR OWN REPORTING IT IS ALSO
EVIDENT THAT GULF STATES HAVE
PUT A LOT OF PRESSURE ON THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION TO DIAL
BACK AGAINST SOME OF THOSE
THREATS ON THE IRANIAN CIVILIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE OUT OF FEAR OF
REPRISAL BECAUSE IF IRAN DID
RESPOND THEY WOULD ONCE AGAIN
LOOK TO TARGET ENERGY AND
DESALINATION PLANTS AS WELL.
THAT SAID, WHAT IS CLEAR IS THE
GULF STATES' RESOLVE HAS
HARDENED OVER THE LAST WEEK AND
YOU HAVE HEARD IT FROM THE
LIKES OF THE SAUDI FOREIGN
MINISTER.
HE WAS GIVING A SPEECH AND
SAID, SAUDI PATIENCE IS NOT
UNLIMITED.
SAUDI ARABIA HAS KICKED OUT THE
IRANIAN MILITARY AND DEEMED
THEM TO BE PERSONA NON GRATA.
OUR REPORTING SUGGESTS IF IRAN
HAS RETALIATED AND GONE AFTER A
SAUDI POWER PLANT OR
DESALINATION PLANT THAT WOULD
BE THE REDLINE FOR SAUDI ARABIA
TO GET MILITARILY INVOLVED BUT
THE BAR IS STILL HIGH FOR THE
STATES TO GET MILITARILY
INVOLVED AND WE ARE NOT THERE
YET ACCORDING TO MANY SENIOR
PEOPLE I HAVE SPOKEN TO YOU BUT
AT THE SAME TIME I THINK IT IS
ALSO WORTH REMINDING PEOPLE
THAT AN OUTCOME IN WHICH IRAN
MAINTAINS EFFECTIVE CONTROL
OVER THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ IS
SOMETHING THAT IS NOT
ACCEPTABLE.
YOU HEARD FROM THE CEO OF THE
STATE OWNED ENERGY COMPANY IN
THE UAE AND HE LIKENED THE
IRANIAN CONTROL OR EFFECTIVE
CONTROL OF THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ
NOW TO ECONOMIC TERROR SO WE DO
NOT TAKE THOSE WORDS
LIGHTLY AND WHILE THERE HAS
BEEN A PUSH FOR INDIRECT
DISCUSSIONS RIGHT NOW BETWEEN
THE U.S.
AND IRAN, QUESTIONS ABOUT
WHETHER THIS WILL LEAD TO SOME
SORT OF BREAKTHROUGH AND
ESPECIALLY FOR ENERGY MARKETS,
WHAT IS GOING TO BE CRUCIAL
FROM HERE ONWARDS IS WHO
EFFECTIVELY WILL BE CONTROLLING
THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ.
IT IS NOT JUST TO MILITARILY
WILL WIN THE WAR BUT ALSO MORE
LONG-TERM WHO IS GOING TO
EFFECTIVELY BE CONTROLLING THE
PASSAGE OF THOSE VESSELS
PASSING THROUGH THE STRAIT.
JONATHAN:
ALWAYS GOOD TO CATCH UP.
THERE'S ALWAYS A HOME BUYERS ON
WALL STREET.
WHAT LED TO THE PRESIDENT
REMOVING SHORT-TERM ESCALATION
RISK YESTERDAY MORNING?
IN MARKETS, YOU BELIEVE IT IS
ABOUT MARKETS, PRESSURE COMING
FROM BOND YIELDS.
WHAT I'M HEARING IS PRESSURE
COMING FROM GOLF ALLIES PUSHING
THE PRESIDENT AWAY FROM
ESCALATING THINGS TOO QUICKLY.
ANNMARIE:
BUT ALSO EVEN SOME CORPORATE
AMERICA EXECUTIVE FROM THE
C-SUITE.
YOU HAVE SECRETARY RIGHT THERE
AND I AM TOLD THEY DID GET A
BIT OF AN EAR FULL OF
WHAT THE ESCALATION COULD MEAN
TO THEIR FACILITIES IN THE
REGION. JONATHAN:
CAMERON DAWSON WRITING, YOU
CANNOT PREDICT BUT WE SEE
EQUITY MARKET VOLATILITY
CONTINUING IN THE COMING WEEKS.
DO YOUR BEST. WHAT WAS THAT
YESTERDAY?
>> IT WAS A FORM OF A TACO AND
WE SAW STRESS IN MARKETS,
WHETHER WE THINK THE THING THAT
WAS THE MOST PRESSURE FROM A
MARKET PERSPECTIVE WAS THE TWO
YEAR YIELD BEING ABOVE THE FED
FUNDS RATE.
WE USED TO THINK THE 10 YEAR
WAS THE THING THAT GOT TRUMP TO
ACT BUT THAT SURGE IN THE TWO
YEAR YIELD SUGGESTS THE FED
COULD BE PUSHED TO RATE HIKES
CERTAINLY SEEM TO BE THE THING
THAT POSSIBLY CAUSE THE MOST
PRESSURE. JONATHAN:
THERE'S A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
PRICING AT ESCALATION RISK AND
PRICING IN LONG-TERM PEACE.
WHERE DO THINK WE ARE THE
MOMENT? CAMERON:
OIL PRICES IS NOT WHERE YOU GO.
IT IS WHERE YOU STAY HERE AND
HOW MUCH DAMAGE HAS BEEN UNDER
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT COULD
PREVENT US FROM GETTING BACK
DOWN TO THAT 60, $70 A BARREL
WHERE WE WERE PRIOR TO THE
CONFLICT?
THERE WAS A GREAT ARTICLE LAST
WEEK THAT WENT THROUGH ALL THE
DIFFERENT THINGS OF
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT HAVE BEEN
DESTROYED OR DAMAGED AND IT
SUGGESTS THAT EVEN IF YOU DO
SEE THE ESCALATION, GETTING
BACK DOWN TO OIL PRICES WHERE
THEY WERE BEFORE LOOKS TO BE
UNLIKELY, WHICH MEANS THAT WE
HAVE TO PRICE IN MORE OF THE
ENERGY COST PRESSURE ON THE
BROADER ECONOMY AND POTENTIALLY
EARNINGS, WHICH WE HAVE SEEN
NOTHING YET. JONATHAN:
YOU SURELY HAVE TO REPRICE
GROWTH, GOING FROM THE
ESTIMATES WE HAVE SEEN.
GOLDMAN SAYS WE ARE GOING TO
AVERAGE $85 THIS YEAR ON BRENT.
FOR THE SECOND QUARTER, THEY
PUT THAT NUMBER AT 100.
BEFORE, IT WAS IN THE MID-70'S.
HOW WOULD YOU BE PRESSING YOUR
OUTLOOK FOR GROWTH WITH THOSE
NUMBERS IN MIND? CAMERON:
THE MOST INTERESTING THING
ABOUT THE LAST MONTH IS HOW
MUCH ANALYSTS HAVE HELD THE
LINE ON GROWTH ESTIMATES AND
THAT IS A BIG DIFFERENCE FROM
2022 OR 2025 WHEN ANALYSTS WERE
QUICK TO CUT ESTIMATES AND
ENDED UP HAVING TO CHASE THEM
HIGHER AS THE ECONOMY AND
CORPORATE EARNINGS PROVED MORE
RESILIENT SO YOU HAVE SEEN GDP
ESTIMATES AT ABOUT 2.4% BUT
MORE INTERESTINGLY YOU HAVE
SEEN EARNINGS ESTIMATES GO UP
IN THE LAST MONTH.
YOU HAVE ADDED 0 A SHARE TO
2020 SEVEN EARNINGS ESTIMATES
IN THE LAST THREE WEEKS WHICH
IS PRICING IN 16% GROWTH FOR
2026 AND 2020 SEVEN SO IT
RAISES THE QUESTION, IS THIS A
SIGN RESILIENCY OR COMPLACENCY?
ANNMARIE:
YOU ARE RIGHT TO POINT OUT THAT
PEACE CANNOT FIX BROKEN PIPES.
IF THIS LINGERS, MAYBE
INDIVIDUALS HAVE TO GO BACK AND
SAY THIS IS GOING TO HAVE A
BIGGER HIT TO CORPORATE PROFIT.
WHEN DOES THAT TIME COME?
CAMERON:
MAYBE INTO THE FIRST QUARTER
EARNINGS SEASON.
YOU START PULLING BACK WHERE
THIS UPSIDE TO EARNING
ESTIMATES HAS COME FROM AND WE
THINK THERE IS A PORTION OF IT
THAT IS COMPLACENT.
THE EVERYTHING ELSE PORTIONS OF
THE MARKET WHERE EARNINGS
ESTIMATES HAVE STAYED FLAT IN
RESPONSE TO ENERGY DISRUPTION
BUT THE MAJORITY OF THE UPSIDE
HAS COME FROM AREAS LIKE SEMI
CONDUCTORS AND ENERGY PRICES
BUT THE ENTIRETY OF THE ENERGY
SECTOR IS LESS THAN HALF THE
WEIGHT IN THE S&P 500 THAT
NVIDIA IS SO NVIDIA IN THE
BROADER SEMI CONDUCTOR COMPLEX
HAS BEEN THE SOURCE OF THIS
UPSIDE EARNINGS ESTIMATES WHICH
WE CAN SAY IS IDIOSYNCRATIC AND
RESILIENT BUT IS ALSO
INTERESTING TO NOTE, DESPITE
THE FACT THAT YOU'VE INCREASED
EARNINGS ESTIMATES BY 30% OVER
THE LAST THREE MONTHS, YOU HAVE
SEEN STOCKS BE FLAT SO IT HAS
NOT TRANSLATED INTO BETTER
STOCK PRICES. JONATHAN:
PHYSICAL MARKETS NEED DEMAND
AND SUPPLY.
WHAT WE ARE SEEING NOW IS REAL
TIMERS AND IN CERTAIN PLACES
LIKE ASIA REAL SHORTAGES. J.P.
MORGAN SAID DEMAND IS NOT BEING
REDUCED BY CHOICE BUT BY THE
PHYSICAL ABSENCE OF INPUTS.
THAT IS ABOUT SHORTAGES AND
THAT IS WHAT YOU ARE SEEING IN
PHYSICAL MARKETS. ANNMARIE:
AND YOU ARE SEEING THAT ACROSS
ASIA.
THEY ARE GOING AFTER A NUMBER
OF MEASURES AND EVEN TELLING
INDIVIDUALS YOU HAVE TO WORK
FROM HOME OR IF YOU WANT TO GO
OUT YOU HAVE TO CARPOOL.
THEY ARE ON THE FRONT LINES OF
ENERGY SHOCK AND DOING ANYTHING
THEY CAN TO MAKE THIS EASIER
FOR CONSUMERS. JONATHAN:
WHAT ARE YOU ADVOCATING FOR NOW?
YOU TALKED ABOUT THE FRONT END
OF THE YIELD CURVE.
WHERE IS THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
YOU? CAMERON:
IT IS IMPORTANT TO STAY
DISCIPLINED WITH TECHNICALS IF
VOLATILITY CONTINUES.
WE GOT IN OVERSOLD INDICATION
FRIDAY BUT IF WE CONTINUE TO
SEE VOLATILITY THERE LIKELY
WILL BE A LONG-TERM BUYING
OPPORTUNITIES IN THE MARKET,
WHICH MEANS IT IS IMPORTANT TO
TAKE THE EMOTION OUT OF THAT
DECISION-MAKING.
WHEN IT COMES TIME TO BUY, YOU
WILL NOT WANT TO, BUT THAT IS
AN IMPORTANT REMINDER IN TIMES
OF DISTINCT UNCERTAINTY, SO
WATCHING THOSE THINGS LIKE
OVERSOLD CONDITIONS WILL BE SO
IMPORTANT AS WE NAVIGATE
THROUGH WHAT COULD BE CONTINUED
VOLATILITY. JONATHAN:
IT IS FAIR TO SAY AT THE MOMENT
THERE IS A LACK OF TRUST. CAN I
ASK YOUR OPINION?
DO YOU THINK THAT COULD LEAD TO
REDUCED LIQUIDITY, MARKET
PARTICIPANTS SAYING I DO NOT
WANT TO PLAY IN THIS MARKET?
CAMERON:
WE HAVE BEEN SEEING LIQUIDITY
START TO PULL AWAY FROM THIS
MARKET FOR SOME TIME.
MICHAEL HOWELL HAS BEEN WRITING
A LOT ABOUT THIS.
LIQUIDITY HAS BEEN EBBING AND
YOU HAVE SEEN IT IN PORTIONS OF
THE MARKET.
WILL BE FASCINATING IS IF YOU
CONTINUE TO SEE EBBING OF
INFLOWS INTO U.S.
EQUITIES WHERE WE HAVE SEEN A
LOT OF INFLOWS INTO
INTERNATIONAL EQUITIES STARTING
THIS YEAR, WHICH IS DIFFERENT
THAN LAST YEAR.
THE WHOLE NARRATIVE WAS ABOUT
HOW PEOPLE WERE SELLING AMERICA
AND GOING INTO INTERNATIONAL
AND THEN HE LOOKED AT THE FLOW
DATA AND PEOPLE WERE STILL
BUYING IN RECORD AMOUNTS U.S.
STOCKS SO THE QUESTION IS AT
WHAT POINT DO PEOPLE GET TIPPED
OVER THE EDGE AND STOP BUYING?
JONATHAN:
IT IS GOOD TO SEE YOU AS ALWAYS.
IF YOU ARE JUST JOINING US,
FOLLOWING THE BIGGEST ONE-DAY
GAIN IN SIX WEEKS ON THE S&P
500. LET'S GET YOU AN UPDATE ON
STORIES WORLDWIDE WITH YOUR
BLOOMBERG BRIEF. YAHAIRA:
DAY 25 OF THE IRAN WARM AND
ATTACKS ARE CONTINUING ON BOTH
SIDES EVEN AFTER PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP SAID HE IS HOLDING
OFF FROM STRIKING IRAN ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR FIVE DAYS.
HE SAID U.S.
ENVOY STEVE WITKOFF AND JARED
KUSHNER SPOKE WITH A TOP PERSON
IN YOUR ON SUNDAY BUT THAT IT
IS NOT THE NEW SUPREME LEADER.
IRANIAN OFFICIALS SAY THEY ARE
ROLLING UP DISCUSSIONS WITH THE
U.S..
SAUDI ARABIA AND THE UAE ARE
CONSIDERING BECOMING INVOLVED
IN THE CONFLICT.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL REPORTS
SAUDI ARABIA HAS AGREED TO GIVE
THE U.S.
ACCESS TO AN AIRBASE IN THE UAE
HAS CLOSED A HOSPITAL AND CLUB
ON BY IRAN.
THE JOURNAL ALSO REPORTED
THOUSANDS OF U.S.
MARINES ARE SET TO ARRIVE IN
THE MIDDLE EAST FRIDAY.
NEW YORK'S LAGUARDIA AIRPORT
REOPENING WITH REDUCED CAPACITY
FOLLOWING A DEADLY COLLISION
BETWEEN AN AIR CANADA EXPRESS
PLANE AND A FIRE TRUCK SUNDAY
NIGHT. RECORDINGS REVEAL ON AIR
TRAFFIC CONTROLLER ORDERING THE
TRUCK TO STOP JUST BEFORE THE
IMPACT TO THE PLANE, WHICH WAS
TRAVELING AT MORE THAN 130
MILES AN HOUR.
JONATHAN:
UP NEXT ON THE PROGRAM, IRAN'S
LAST CHANCE.
>> IRAN HAS MORE OF AN
OPPORTUNITY AND WE HOPE THEY
TAKE IT.
BY THE WAY AMERICA AND THE
ENTIRE WORLD WILL SOON BE MUCH
SAFER. JONATHAN:
WE CATCH UP ON THE COUNCIL OF
FOREIGN RELATIONS PLAYED LIVE
FROM NEW YORK CITY, GOOD
MORNING.
♪
JONATHAN:
COMPARED TO THE MANIC PRICE
ACTION THINGS ARE A WHOLE LOT
CALMER.
EQUITY FUTURES UNCHANGED ON THE
S&P 500.
SLIGHTLY POSITIVE BY LESS THAN
1/10 OF 1%.
UNDER SURVEILLANCE, IRAN'S
FINAL CHANCE. JONATHAN:
WE'VE BEEN NEGOTIATING FOR A
LONG TIME AND THIS TIME THEY
MEAN BUSINESS.
NOW IRAN HAS MORE OPPORTUNITY
TO END ITS THREATS TO AMERICA
AND HER ALLIES AND WE HOPE THEY
TAKE IT.
BY THE WAY AMERICA AND THE
ENTIRE WORLD WILL SOON BE MUCH
SAFER.
>> HERE'S THE LATEST IRAN
FIRING FRESH STRIKES ACROSS THE
GULF IS PRESENT CLAIMS TALKS
ARE UNDERWAY.
MIKE JOINS US FROM WASHINGTON
FOR MORE.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
WHO'S TALKING TO WHO AND HOW
FAR ALONG ARE WE IN THOSE TALKS?
>> THIS IS MAYBE WHAT WE REFER
TO AS THE FOG OF WAR, PERHAPS
THE FOG OF DIPLOMACY.
ON ONE HAND WE HAVE PRESIDENT
TRUMP CLAIMING TALKS INVOLVING
HIS SPECIAL ENVOY STEVE WITKOFF
AND SON-IN-LAW JARED KUSHNER
WITH THE TOP PERSON IN IRAN.
AND IRAN WAS ACTUALLY LOOKING
TO MAKE A DEAL YET WE JUST AS
QUICKLY HEARD BACK FROM TEHRAN
SAY NO SUCH TALKS WERE UNDERWAY
AND THEY DO NOT SEE ANY TRUST
BETWEEN TEHRAN AND WASHINGTON.
AT THE SAME TIME IRAN'S FOREIGN
MINISTER HAS BEEN DISCUSSING
WITH SOME COUNTERPARTS IN THE
REGION IN TURKEY, OMAN AND
ELSEWHERE WHO HAVE SERVED AS
INTERMEDIARIES BETWEEN THE U.S.
AND IRAN SO THERE MAY BE SOME
LEVEL OF DISCUSSIONS UNDERWAY,
A VERY PRELIMINARY IF THERE ARE
REALLY ADVANCING AT ALL.
WHO HAVE TO WATCH TO SEE WITH
THE PRESIDENT SAYS LATER TODAY
HE WILL BE HEARING ONE: 30 P.M.
FOR A SWEARING-IN CEREMONY FOR
THE NEW HOMELAND SECURITY'S
MARKWAYNE MULLIN.
IT WILL BE IN THE OVAL OFFICE A
PLACE FOR LIKES TO HOLD COURT
AND TALK ABOUT HIS NEXT STEPS.
THE QUESTION WILL BE WILL HE
TILT TOWARDS DIPLOMACY OR TILT
MORE IN THE DIRECTION OF THIS
ULTIMATUM HE HAS GIVEN TO
TEHRAN BY FRIDAY.
AND EXCEPTING THE U.S.
TERMS FOR SOME SORT OF PEACE
AGREEMENT. JONATHAN:
IN FIVE DAYS THAT'S WHEN THIS
EXPIRES.
YESTERDAY IS ONE WE GET TO
FRIDAY.
ALSO ON THE CALENDAR ADDITIONAL
ASSETS GET TO THE REGION AROUND
THE SAME TIME.
IS THAT JUST A COINCIDENCE.
>> IT'S A GREAT QUESTION AND
SOME HAVE WONDERED IF HE WAS
SIMPLY BUYING TIME TO TAKE
PERHAPS ANOTHER STEP.
THAT WOULD BE PUTTING AMERICAN
BOOTS ON THE GROUND AND IN
PARTICULAR ONE OF THE AREAS
THAT HE HAS WAITED IN THE PAST
IS WHETHER AMERICAN TROOPS
SHOULD TAKE A PRESENCE ON THE
ENERGY HUB OF KHARG ISLAND.
IT'S CLOSE TO THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ OR PERHAPS SOME SORT OF
ROLE IN TRYING TO OPEN THE
STRAIGHT BY PUTTING A MILITARY
PRESENCE ON THE GROUND THERE.
ALL OF THAT IS SPECULATION.
IT'S UNCLEAR IF HE WOULD MOVE
IN THAT DIRECTION.
WHEN THIS CONFLICT STARTED,
JARED KUSHNER AND STEVE WITKOFF
HAD BEEN IN CONTACT AND THEY
FOUND THE TALKS HADN'T GONE
ANYWHERE.
NOT TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE
ADMINISTRATION AND WAS AT THAT
POINT THAT THEY WALK AWAY.
AS THE PRESIDENT SAYS THERE IS
NOT MUCH TIME FOR IRAN TO MAKE
A MOVE SO IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE HOW THOSE
ASSETS LINE UP AND WHAT THE
NEXT STEPS WILL BE. JONATHAN:
YOU WILL HEAR MORE FROM MIKE
SHEPARD LATER ON THIS MORNING.
STEVEN KIRK WRITING THE
FOLLOWING, PRESIDENT TRUMP MUST
GET VERIFIABLE CONSTRAINTS ON
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM AND
REESTABLISH FREEDOM OF
NAVIGATION THROUGH THE STRAIT
OF HORMUZ OR IT'S A STRATEGIC
DEFEAT FOR THE U.S..
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
IF I WANT TO CALL IRAN, WHO DO
I CALL NOW? STEVEN:
IT'S A VERY GOOD QUESTION.
THE REPORTING IS THE UNITED
STATES WAS ABLE TO REACH THE
SPEAKER OF IRAN'S PARLIAMENT.
HE HAS DENIED THAT ANY
NEGOTIATIONS ARE GOING ON.
THERE'S ALSO SOME INDICATION
THAT THE EGYPTIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER WAS ABLE TO REACH
PEOPLE WITHIN THE ISLAMIC WERE
INCORPORATED THEY HAVE ALSO
DENIED THE FACT THAT THEY WILL
BE NEGOTIATIONS.
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THERE ARE
OR AREN'T, IT SEEMS THE
PRESIDENT IS, IN KEEPING WITH
THIS TIMELINE LOOKING FOR A WAY
TO WIND THIS CONFLICT DOWN.
ANNMARIE:
YOU KNOW THESE COUNTRIES WELL
WHEN IT COMES TO EGYPT,
PAKISTAN.
WHO DO YOU THINK COULD BE A
REAL VIABLE INTERMEDIARY RIGHT
NOW BETWEEN TEHRAN AND
WASHINGTON? STEVEN:
IT SEEMS THE PAKISTANIS ARE
TAKING A LEAD WITH HELP FROM
THE EGYPTIANS.
AND EGYPTIANS HAVE
IMPROVED THEIR RELATIONS WITH
IRAN IN THE RUN-UP TO THIS
CONFLICT.
THEY SEEM TO BE PLAYING THE
MOST BEHIND-THE-SCENES ROLE IN
TRYING TO ESTABLISH SOME TYPE
OF COMMUNICATION BETWEEN
WASHINGTON AND TEHRAN.
BUT THE IRANIAN POSITION IS
WE'VE BEEN NEGOTIATING WITH
TRUMP TWICE IN THE MIDDLE OF
NEGOTIATIONS HE'S TAKEN
MILITARY ACTION.
SO THERE'S GOING TO BE A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
SKEPTICISM WITH TEHRAN ABOUT
GETTING TO THE TABLE.
AS WE'VE SEEN THE IRANIANS HAVE
A LOT OF FIGHT IN THEM.
THERE SEEMS TO BE A LOT OF
INCENTIVE ON THEIR PART TO
ENGAGE IN NEGOTIATIONS BRINGS
TO AN END. ANNMARIE: THE U.S.
NEEDS TO REESTABLISH THE
FREEDOM OF NAVIGATION IN THE
STRAIT OF HORMUZ OR IT'S A
STRATEGIC FAILURE, HOW DO YOU
PERCEIVE THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ
WILL BE BASICALLY OPERATING IN
THE FUTURE.
THE PRESIDENT SAID A LITTLE BIT
TONGUE-IN-CHEEK BUT MAYBE ME
AND THE AYATOLLAH WILL DO IT
TOGETHER. STEVEN:
THIS IS A HUGE PROBLEM, THE U.S.
CANNOT COME OUT OF THIS WAR
WITH THE IRANIAN REGIME INTACT.
IRAN'S ABILITY TO FIRE ON ITS
NEIGHBORS.
NO CLEAR VERIFIABLE LIMITS ON
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM AND THE
IRANIANS CONTROL THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ.
THAT WOULD BE A WORSE POSITION
THE U.S.
WOULD BE IN THEM BEFORE THE
PRESIDENT STARTED HOSTILITIES.
THEY WILL HAVE TO REESTABLISH
FREEDOM OF NAVIGATION THROUGH
THE STRAIGHT.
THAT MEANS IRANIANS WILL HAVE
NO CONTROL OVER WHO GOES
THROUGH THAT WATERWAY. ANNMARIE:
ISN'T THAT GENIE OUT OF THE
BOTTLE? THEY HAVE CONTROL.
STEVEN:
IT WILL BE TRULY DIFFICULT TO
PUT IT BACK IN THE BOTTLE.
IT SEEMS TO BE THE WAY TO DO
THAT WILL BE THROUGH MILITARY
ACTION. IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE A
NEGOTIATION GIVEN THE POSITION
THE IRANIANS ARE IN WHERE THEY
HAVE ESTABLISHED A NEW REGIME
FOR PASTOR TO THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ.
JONATHAN:
STEVEN COOK FROM COUNCIL ON
FOREIGN RELATIONS FRAMING THESE
TALKS WILL BE ABOUT AND THE
OBJECTIVES NEED TO BE.
>> THE IRANIANS WILL SAY WE'VE
BEEN WITH THROUGH THAT WITH THE
UNITED STATES WEATHER WAS
MIDNIGHT HAMMER OR EPIC FURY WE
HAVE BEEN IN TACT.
SO WHY SHOULD THEY TAKE THESE
TALKS SERIOUSLY.
IS TRUMP JUST BUYING TIME UNTIL
THE THOUSANDS OF MARINES GET TO
THE MIDDLE EAST AND POTENTIALLY
WE COULD SEE EVEN REGIONAL
PARTNERS, IN IN OF BACKING UP
THE UNITED STATES.
>> TRYING TO FIGURE OUT THE
NEXT PHASE OF THIS WAR DOES A
LEAD TO DE-ESCALATION OR
ULTIMATELY ESCALATION.
EQUITY FUTURES A LOT CALMER.
YESTERDAY ANYTHING BUT CALM
PARTICULAR THIS TIME YESTERDAY
WHEN WE WERE ABOUT 40 OR 50
MINUTES AWAY FROM A MARKET
MOVING STATEMENT FOR THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FUTURES CALM ARE THE BOND
MARKET. WILD SWINGS.
BEFORE RETREATING BACK TO
LEVELS WE HAVEN'T SEEN IN ABOUT
A WEEK OR SO.
STILL A MAJOR MOVE SO FAR BOTH
IN BONDS AND IN CRUDE.
GOLDMAN SACHS ON WHY CRUDE CAN
STAY HIGHER FOR LONGER.
PLUS YOUR MORNING MOVERS.
EQUITIES SURGING,
THE STOCK IS UP BY 14%. ♪
JONATHAN:
COMING UP THAT BACK OF THE
BIGGEST ONE-DAY GAIN IN SOME
SIX WEEKS ON THE S&P THIS
MORNING, JUST ABOUT UNCHANGED,
NEGATIVE RAID ON THE RUSSELL
YESTERDAY, UP MORE THAN 2%.
BEST DAYS OF THE MONTH OF MARCH.
RUSSELL THIS MORNING, DOWN BY
0.2%. IN THE COMMODITY MARKET
YESTERDAY CONSUMER
DISCRETIONARY STOCKS ARE
PERFORMING AS ENERGY RETREATED.
RETREATING BRIEFLY.
BRENT IS UP 1%, TRIPLE DIGITS
ON BRENT, $90 ON WTI AND THE
PHYSICAL MARKETS, VERY
INTERESTING STEPPING INTO
PURCHASE A INCLUDED. ANNMARIE:
RELIANCE INDUSTRY PURCHASING 5
MILLION BARRELS UP A CRUDE
ACCORDING TO REUTERS.
THIS STRIKES ME ESPECIALLY
GIVEN THE FACT WE ARE UNDER A
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION AND FOR
YEARS THE PRESIDENT HAS SPOKEN
ABOUT MAXIMUM PRESSURE ON IRAN.
THEIR CRUDE WAS PRICED AT A
PREMIUM OF ABOUT SEVEN DOLLARS
A BARREL TO BRENT FUTURES.
THIS IS MUCH HIGHER IN TERMS OF
PRICE PER BARREL THE IRANIANS
ARE GETTING THAN JUST A FEW
WEEKS AGO. JONATHAN:
THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT LEVELED
ACCUSATIONS, THE EUROPEANS WERE
FINANCING THE WORK IS
THEMSELVES BY BUYING RUSSIAN
ENERGY. IT FEELS LIKE A SIMILAR
SITUATION GIVEN THE SANCTION
RELIEF WE HAVE SEEN THE PAST
TWO WEEKS. ANNMARIE:
A LOT OF PEOPLE MESSAGING ME
SAYING THIS IS HYPOCRITICAL.
HOW CAN THE UNSANCTIONED WHEN
YOU ARE LITERALLY IN THE MIDDLE
OF A FIGHT WITH THE IRANIANS
AND THEY ARE TAKING ENERGY
INSTALLATIONS OF YOUR PARTNERS
AND SOME OF THOSE ARE JOINT
VENTURES WITH U.S.
COMPANIES IN THE REGION?
JONATHAN:
HERE'S THE BOND MARKET.
LET'S PICK OUT TWO POINTS ON
THE CURVE.
NEW HIGHS FOR THE YEAR, 4.01%.
THOSE HIGHS FOR THE YEAR STRUCK
YESTERDAY.
DRAMATICALLY FOLLOWING THE
SOCIAL MEDIA POST FROM THE
PRESIDENT.
AS WE DOWN TO THE OPENING BELL,
ABOUT THREE HOURS AWAY FROM THE
OPEN, YAHAIRA HAS MORE. YAHAIRA:
JEFFREY, SHARES ARE UP 9.5%
THAT JAPAN'S ESTIMATE IS
EXPLORING A POSSIBLE TAKEOVER.
SMFG HAS BEEN QUIETLY BUILDING
HIS STAKE AS JEFFRIES HAS
TREATED WELL OFF ITS HIGHS.
JUST MORE BROADLY QUESTIONS
AROUND ITS UNDERWRITING
STANDARDS.
THIS IS ALL ABOUT BULKING UP
ITS INVESTMENT BANK AND GETTING
A FOOTHOLD ON WALL STREET.
TURNING TO NETGEAR, SHARES
RISING NEARLY 14% IN THE
PREMARKET AFTER A MAJOR POLICY
SHIFT OUT OF WASHINGTON THAT
THE FCC IS MOVING TO BAN
ROUTERS MADE OUTSIDE OF THE U.S.
OVER NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERNS.
NETGEAR DOES MAKE ITS PRODUCTS
OVERSEAS BUT INVESTORS ARE
BETTING IT COULD WIN EXCEPTIONS
AND BENEFIT LEVELS LIKE TPLINK
GET PUSHED OUT.
THAT IS THE WORLD'S LARGEST
ROUTER MAKER BUT HAS
CONNECTIONS TO CHINA SO IT HAS
BEEN UNDER SCRUTINY FOR THAT.
WE END IN SPAIN WITH SHARES UP
NEARLY 15% IN THE PREMARKET
AFTER ESTEE LAUDER SAID IT IS
IN TALKS TO BUY THE COMPANY IN
A DEAL THAT WOULD CREATE A $20
BILLION BEAUTY POWERHOUSE.
THE DEAL WOULD HELP ESTEE
COMPETE WITH L'OREAL BUT
INVESTORS ARE QUESTIONING THE
TIMING SINCE ESTEE LAUDER IS IN
THE MIDST OF A TURNAROUND.
ESTEE LAUDER SHARES BARELY
MOVING THIS MORNING THOUGH THEY
WERE DOWN MORE THAN 7% ON THE
NEWS YESTERDAY. JONATHAN:
THANK YOU FOR THE UPDATE.
APOLLO CURVING REDEMPTIONS FROM
ONE OF ITS BIGGEST PRIVATE
CREDIT FUNDS FOLLOWING A SURGE
AND REQUEST FOR $25 BILLION
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
APOLLO DEBT SOLUTIONS, CAPPING
WITHDRAWALS OF 5% OF
OUTSTANDING SHARES.
IRAN LAUNCHING ATTACKS ON
SURROUNDING CITIES AND U.S.
BASES IN THE MIDDLE EAST
OVERNIGHT.
IT PRESIDENT TRUMP SAYING TALKS
TO END THE WAR ARE ON THE WAY.
TEHRAN DENYING THE CLAIM AND
U.S.
ALLIES ACROSS THE PERSIAN GULF
REPORTEDLY MOVING CLOSER TO
JOINING THE FIGHT AGAINST IRAN.
"SAUDI ARABIA WILL ALLOW
AMERICAN FORCES TO USE ONE OF
ITS AIRBASES AS THE UAE BEGINS
CRACKING DOWN ON IRANIAN OWNED
ASSETS." ANNMARIE:
LOOK AT THE WALL STREET JOURNAL"
SAYING OMID BIN SALMAN IS
LOOKING TO SET DETERRENCE AND
MAY JOIN IN THE ATTACKS WHILE
THE EMIRATES ARE TRYING TO CUT
OFF SOME OF THE FINANCIAL
BENEFITS THAT ARE HELPING THE
REGIME.
WHAT IS INTERESTING AND IF YOU
OR MESSAGE ME ABOUT THIS AND WE
WERE DISCUSSING IT, THE SAUDI
ARABIANS RECENTLY, MONTHS AGO,
SIGNED A DEFENSE PACT WITH
PAKISTAN. HOW MESSY COULD THOSE
DELIBERATIONS GET ON THE
DIPLOMATIC FRONT IF ISLAMABAD
IS LEADING THOSE TALKS BUT ALSO
IF SAUDI ARABIA WERE TO JOIN IN
THE FIGHT AND THEY WERE
ATTACKED BY THE IRANIANS, THAT
BASICALLY MEANS PAKISTAN, WHICH
WANTS TO LEAD THE DIPLOMATIC,
WOULD HAVE TO JOIN THE FIGHT
AND BACK UP THE KINGDOM.
JONATHAN:
GETTING A DECENT UNDERSTANDING
OF WHAT IS GOING ON HERE, ANY
INVOLVEMENT OF SAUDI ARABIA AND
THE UAE, HIGHLY CONDITIONAL.
VERY SPECIFIC WHICH IS DRAMATIC
ESCALATION FROM HERE.
THAT ESCALATION WOULD INCLUDE
DAMAGE BEING DONE TO POWER
PLANTS IN THE LIKES, ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WOULD
REALLY HARM CIVILIANS.
THAT IS WHAT WAS ON THE TABLE
POTENTIALLY ON MONDAY EVENING
PREDICT INITIAL ULTIMATUM THE
PRESIDENT WOULD STRIKE THOSE
ASSETS AND IRAN WOULD IN TURN
RECALIBRATED THEY PUT MASSIVE
PRESSURE ON THE U.S.
NOT TO GO FORWARD WITH THAT.
DECENT WAY OF THINKING ABOUT
WHERE WE ARE AND WHAT THE UAE
AND SAUDI ARABIA DOES NOT WANT
TO DO AND DOES NOT WANT TO SEE
AT THE MOMENT. ANNMARIE:
BUT WOULD THEY BE WILLING TO DO
IT? ESPECIALLY NOW.
I THINK THE COMMENTS FROM SAUDI
ARABIA'S FOREIGN MINISTER
BASICALLY SAYING WE DO HAVE A
LIMIT INTO WHAT WE ARE WILLING
TO TOLERATE FROM TEHRAN.
THEY HAVE SAID A NUMBER OF
INDIVIDUALS IN RIYADH IN TERMS
OF OFFICIALS ARE PERSONA NON
GRATA.
RELATIONSHIP IS QUITE TENSE.
JONATHAN:
CRUDE COMING OFF THE BACK OF
ONE OF THE BIGGEST ONE-DAY
SWINGS WE HAVE EVER SEEN .
CHEVRON CEO WARNING THE RISKS
MIGHT NOT BE FULLY PRICED IN.
>> THE MARKETS ARE TRADING ON
SCANT INFORMATION I WOULD SAY
AND KIND OF PERCEPTION.
THERE ARE VERY REAL PHYSICAL
MANIFESTATIONS OF THE CLOSURE
OF THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ THAT
ARE WORKING THEIR WAY AROUND
THE WORLD AND THROUGH THE
SYSTEM THAT I DON'T THINK ARE
FULLY PRICED INTO THE FUTURES
CURVES. JONATHAN:
GOLDMAN SACHS WRITING WE NOW
EXPECT 26 AVERAGES FOR BRENT
$85, $79 FOR WTI.
REFLECTING RECOGNITION OF
STRUCTURALLY HIGH SUPPLY RISKS.
DAAN STRUYVEN JOINS US NOW.
LET'S TALK ABOUT HOW YOUR
ASSUMPTIONS HAVE SHIFTED.
WHAT WAS THE BEST CASE AND WHAT
IS IT NOW?
>> WE CHANGE OUR FORECAST ON
THE BACK OF AN ASSUMPTION THAT
IT WILL TAKE LONGER FOR FLOWS
TO THE STRATA FORM IS TO
RECOVER.
WE LOOK FOR THE START OF
RECOVERY IN MID APRIL AS
OPPOSED TO LATE MARCH
PREVIOUSLY.
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR GRADUAL
RECOVERY OVER THREE MONTHS BUT
IT IS AN ASSUMPTION.
I THINK THE RISKS ARE SKEWED
TOWARD THE LONGER PERIOD FOR
FLOWS TO RECOVER.
A SECOND CURRENT STRUCTURALLY,
I THINK PRICES EVEN BY YEAR-END
WOULD BE ABOUT $20 HIGHER THAN
THEY WOULD HAVE BEEN IN THE
ABSENCE.
WE ARE SEEING THE SIGNIFICANT
DAMAGE TO GLOBAL COMMERCIAL OIL.
THIS IS A VERY LARGE SECULAR
RECOGNITION OF STRUCTURALLY
HIGHER RISK TO SUPPLY I THINK
WILL READ TO STRATEGIC
STOCKPILING.
AND SECURITY PREMIUM AND LONG
DATA OIL PRICES. JONATHAN:
LET'S TAKE ON THE STOCKPILING
POINT.
CAN YOU DETAIL THE PHYSICAL
SHORTAGES THAT ARE BUILDING
RIGHT NOW YOU AND PLACES LIKE
ASIA AND CERTAIN AND WHY THAT
WOULD LEAD THEM TO BASICALLY
LOOK AT THE SITUATION IS SAY,
YOU KNOW WHAT?
WE NEED TO STOCKPILE FROM HERE
AND FOR A LONG TIME TO MAKE
SURE THIS NEVER HAPPENS AGAIN.
>> OIL EXPORTS FROM THE PERSIAN
GULF ARE DOWN 17 MILLION
BARRELS A DAY.
ABOUT 90% OF THE FLOWS
TYPICALLY GOES TO ASIA.
WE ARE SEEING EXTREME PRICES
FOR INSTANCE JET FUEL COME
ABOUT 200.
AS ATTORNEY FOR COUNTRIES THAT
HAVE RELATIVELY LOW INJURIES,
LIMITED STRATEGIC OIL RESERVES
AND LARGE IMPORTERS.
AND LARGE SHARE OF GDP.
ARTICLES RELATED TO FUEL
RATIONING USING BLOOMBERG
SOURCES, ASIA ECONOMICS TEAM
HAS IDENTIFIED THE TOP OF THE
LIST IN TERMS OF THE RISK OF
SHORTAGES. ANNMARIE:
WHERE WERE INVENTORIES AND
STORAGE GOING INTO THE CONFLICT?
>> AT THE GLOBAL LEVEL,
INVENTORIES WERE SOMEWHAT ABOVE
AVERAGE. VERY HIGH ON WATER.
NOW SEEING INCREDIBLY QUICK
DRAW DOWNS IN OIL ON WATER.
ESSENTIALLY UNDONE
IN 2.5 WEEKS THE LARGEST BUILD
EVER.
AT THE MOMENT, THERE IS STILL
THIS BIG DIVERGENCE BETWEEN
SLIGHT BILLS OF INVENTORIES IN
THE U.S., MASSIVE DRAWS ON
WATER AND LARGE DRAWS IN ASIA
AS WELL.
THAT IS THE REASON WHY TI IS AT
90 AND DUBAI AND OMAN ARE WELL
INTO TRIPLE DIGIT TERRITORY.
ANNMARIE:
WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT WHAT ASIAN
COUNTRIES ARE DOING, THE
BIGGEST OIL REFINERIES
BASICALLY SAYING WE ARE GOING
TO HAVE TO CUT HOW MUCH WE
EXPORT BECAUSE WE NEED IT FOR
OUR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION, ARE
WE GOING TO SEE A LOT MORE
MOVES AT THAT?
WHEN DOES IT START TO HIT
EUROPE?
>> WE ALREADY HAVE SEEN AT
LEAST THREE COUNTRIES IMPOSING
RESTRICTIONS OF REFINES OIL
PRODUCTS.
IT IS A TRIPLE WHAMMY FOR THE
MARKET. ONE, THE MIDDLE EAST IS
EXPORTING LESS, ESPECIALLY THE
HEAVIER PRODUCTS SUCH AS JETS.
SECOND, WE ARE MISSING THE
HEAVIER CRUDE THE MIDDLE EAST
TYPICALLY MAKES.
LIKE JET FUEL OIL. AND DIESEL.
THIRD, SEVERAL COUNTRIES ARE
TRYING TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SHORTAGES OR RESTRICTING
EXPORTS.
WE ARE GOING TO VERY LOW
INVENTORY LEVELS ARE HEAVY
REFINED OIL PRODUCTS AND IF
THIS DISRUPTION CONTINUES.
JONATHAN:
CHEVRON SAYING THERE ARE VERY
REAL PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS OF
THE CLOSURE OF THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ MAKING THE WAY AROUND
THE WORLD ENTER THE SYSTEM THAT
I DON'T THINK ARE FULLY PRICED
INTO THE FUTURES CURVES.
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
PHYSICAL MARKETS RIGHT NOW AND
THE FUTURES CURVE AND WHAT YOU
MAKE OF THAT STATEMENT, ONE OF
THE CEOS OF ONE OF THE BIGGEST
COMPANIES IN THE ENERGY SECTOR
IN THIS COUNTRY?
>> THE FUTURES PRICES, BASE
CASE, YOU START TO SEE RECOVERY
OF THE FLOWS FROM A SUMMER MID
APRIL.
THE SKEW OF RISK IS VERY MUCH
TOWARD DELAYS AND SHARPER
PHYSICAL TIGHTNESS AND
THEREFORE HIGHER PRICES.
JONATHAN:
WHAT KIND OF NUMBERS ARE YOU
THINKING ABOUT?
>> WE LAID OUT TWO RISK
SCENARIOS.
ONE IN THE ADVERSE RISK
SCENARIO, TAKES 10 WEEKS FOR
FLOWS TO RECOVER RATHER THAN
OUR BASE CASE OF SIX.
YOU END INTO THE RIGHT 100 FOR
BRENT.
THE OTHER SCENARIO, 10 WEEKS OF
VERY LOW FLOWS AND 2 MILLION
BARRELS A DAY OF PERSISTENT OIL
LOSSES FROM THE MIDDLE EAST AS
HAPPENS IN SOME OF THE LARGEST
SUPPLY SHOCKS.
YOU AND YOUR AROUND 115 WAS
SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER PRICES.
ANNMARIE:
WE ARE AT $3.77 A GALLON OF GAS.
HOW HIGH IS IT GOING TO GET?
>> YOU PROBABLY GO A BIT ABOVE
$4, ESPECIALLY IN THE
SUMMERTIME WHEN THERE IS A
PREMIUM.
DIESEL PRICES, RETAIL PRICES
ARE ALREADY AT $5. JONATHAN:
DAAN STRUYVEN, THANK YOU.
ANNMARIE:
TALKING ABOUT THESE OTHER
COUNTRIES TAKING MEASURES TO
BAN EXPERTS, I'M LOOKING AT
CHINA AND THE REFINERY HAVE TO
THINK IF WE GET TO A LEVEL
CLOSE TO FIVE DOLLARS A GALLON,
WILL THIS WHITE HOUSE COME OUT
AND SAY, I KNOW WE SAID WE WERE
NOT GOING TO BAN EXPERTS BUT
THAT WAS THEN AND THIS IS NOW
AND PRICES ARE TOO HIGH AND IT
IS MIDTERM ELECTION YEAR IN
WHICH TO DO SOMETHING TO THESE
CONSUMERS? JONATHAN:
I KEEP HEARING DEMAND
DESTRUCTION.
WHAT YOU SEE RIGHT NOW, I DON'T
THINK YOU CAN CALL DEMAND
DESTRUCTION.
DEMAND FOR ENERGY, STRUCTURALLY
ELASTIC.
PEOPLE WILL CARRY ON USING IT
SO LONG AS THEY CAN GET IT.
AND RIGHT NOW THEY CAN'T GET IT.
IT IS SO SHORTAGES RIGHT NOW
THAT IS REALLY HITTING DEMAND,
NOT THE PRICE.
THAT IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
THE PRICE REFLECTS THE
SHORTAGES.
IT IS SO SHORTAGES THAT ARE
HURTING AGE AT THE MOMENT.
ANNMARIE: GREAT POINT.
DUAL SHORTAGES.
SHORT-TERM IN TERMS OF THE
STRAIT OF HORMUZ AND LONG-TERM
CONCERNS OF THIS PHYSICAL
DEMAND DESTRUCTION OF IT'S
GOING TO TAKE MONTHS AND YEARS
FOR SOME OF THESE INSTALLATIONS
IN THE REGION TO BE BACK UP AND
RUNNING AS NORMAL. JONATHAN:
AN UPDATE ON STORES WORLDWIDE
WITH YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF, HERE
IS TARIFF. YAHAIRA:
EUROPEAN UNION AND AUSTRALIA
AGREE TO A FREE-TRADE DEAL
AFTER ALMOST A DECADE OF
NEGOTIATIONS.
BOTH PARTIES ARE WORKING TO
SHIELD THEIR ECONOMIES FROM U.S.
TARIFFS AND CHINA'S
RESTRICTIONS ON CRITICAL
MINERALS.
EUROPEAN COMMISSION PRESENT
URSULA VON DER LEYEN SAYING THE
AGREEMENT WILL NEED TO BE
SIGNED OFF BY EU COUNTRIES AND
APPROVED BY BOTH PARLIAMENTS.
MARKWAYNE MULLIN HAS BEEN
CONFIRMED AS DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY.
THE SENATE VOTING MOSTLY ALONG
PARTY LINES TO CONFIRM THE
FIRST TERM REPUBLICAN SENATOR
WHO HAS BEEN A STAUNCH DEFENDER
OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
DEPORTATION CAMPAIGN.
HE REPLACES KRISTI NOEM.
MORE ON DHS, SENATORS ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE AISLE EXPRESSING
OPTIMISM ABOUT REACHING AN
AGREEMENT TO END THE ONGOING
FIVE-WEEK PARTIAL SHUTDOWN.
IT'S AFTER A MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP,
REPUBLICAN SENATOR KATIE BRITT
SAYING SHE THOUGHT THEY HAD A
SOLUTION TO THE IMPASSE AND SHE
WOULD BE WORKING THROUGH THE
NIGHT TO "LAND THIS PLANE."
THAT IS YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF.
JONATHAN:
UP ON THE PROGRAM, CUTTING
THROUGH THE NOISE.
>> WE SHOULD NOT BE MAKING
POLICY BASED ON SHORT TERM
HEADLINES.
THESE OIL SHOCKS HAVE BEEN
THINGS THE FED HAS LOOKED
THROUGH FOR A LONG TIME.
LOOKING 12 TO 18 MONTHS OUT,
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH CLARITY
THINK MONETARY POLICY ITSELF
SHOULD ADJUST. JONATHAN:
KAY HERR JOINS US LIVE NEXT.
THIS IS "BLOOMBERG." ♪
JONATHAN:
HERE ARE YOUR SCORES THIS
MORNING.
EQUITY FUTURES DOWN .1% ON THE
S&P 500 FOLLOWING THE WILD
SWINGS TO START THE TRADING
WEEK . NASDAQ UNCHANGED.
RUSSELL -.1%.
NOTHING NEAR WHERE WE WERE
YESTERDAY MORNING HEADING INTO
THE SOCIAL MEDIA POST FROM THE
PRESIDENT REMOVING THE SHORT
TERM ESCALATION RISK.
IN THE BOND MARKET A NEW HIGH
FOR THE YEAR ON TWO'S.
FACT BELOW THOSE LEVELS THIS
MORNING AT 3.38 ON THE TWO-YEAR
AND ON THE 10 YEAR AT 4.37.
WTI WAS TRIPLE DIGITS TO START
THE WEEK, $90 NOW.
BRENT CRUDE JUST ABOUT HOLDING
ON TO TRIPLE DIGITS BUT WAY OFF
THE HIGHS OF YESTERDAY MORNING.
ANNMARIE:
THE PRESIDENTS SOCIAL POST
REALLY DEPRESSED SOME OF THE
RISK PREMIUM WE SAW GOING INTO
THE WEEK BECAUSE WE HAD A 7:45
P.M. DEADLINE LAST NIGHT FOR
INCREASING VOLATILITY AND
THREATS AGAINST THE REGIME.
THE REGIMES THAT WE ARE GOING
TO COUNTER THAT.
NOW WE HAVE A NEW DEADLINE.
WHERE ARE WE GOING TO BE FRIDAY
AT THE CLOSE GOING INTO THIS
WEEKEND? JONATHAN:
ABSOLUTELY NO IDEA AND IF I
KNEW I WOULD NOT BE HERE.
I'M SURE SOMEONE ELSE WAS
THINKING ABOUT DOING THE SAME
THING IF THEY HAD THE
INFORMATION THEY HAD AHEAD OF
THAT SOCIAL MEDIA POST BY THE
PRESIDENT YESTERDAY. ANNMARIE:
THAT IS A LOT OF CONTROVERSY.
THE FINANCIAL TIMES, THE
JOURNAL , BLOOMBERG LOOKING
INTO HOW BIG THESE TRADES WERE
JUST A MERE 10 OR 15 MINUTES
BEFORE THE PRESIDENT CAME OUT
WITH THAT TRUTH SOCIAL POST.
KNOWING WHAT HE WAS GOING TO
SAY SOME PEOPLE SUGGEST THAT IF
YOU KNEW WHAT HE WAS GOING TO
SAY THAT IS THE TRADE YOU PUT
ON. JONATHAN:
AND PEOPLE WERE SCRUTINIZING
THE VOLUME GOING THROUGH
CERTAIN ASSET CLASSES.
WE WILL DO OUR BEST TO FIGURE
OUT WHAT IS GOING ON.
ATTEMPTING TO CUT THROUGH THE
NOISE.
>> WE SHOULD NOT BE MAKING
POLICY BASED ON SHORT TERM
HEADLINES.
THE OIL SHOCKS ARE THINGS THE
FED HAS LOOKED THROUGH FOR A
LONG TIME.
WE HAVE TO LOOK 12 TO 18 MONTHS
OUT, NOT YESTERDAY.
12 TO 18 MONTHS OUT THERE IS
NOT ENOUGH CLARITY TO THINK
MONETARY POLICY SHOULD ADJUST.
JONATHAN: BOND YIELDS WHIPSAW BY
CONFLICTING CLAIMS ON IRAN.
KAY HERR OF J.P.
MORGAN ASSET WRITING "OUR BASE
CASE IS RAGE ABOUT RATES AND A
GRADUAL REPRICING OF CENTRAL
BANK POLICY RATES BACK TO 3%."
KAY JOINS US FOR MORE. KAY:
HAPPIER TO BE HERE TODAY THAN
YESTERDAY AT 6:45. JONATHAN:
I WISH I HAD TAKEN YESTERDAY
MORNING OFF PARTICULARLY AHEAD
OF THE HEADLINES.
THE SWINGS WE HAVE SEEN --
WHERE ARE WE NOW? KAY:
THIS WAS SUPPOSED TO BE A QUIET
NEWSWEEK.
NO MAJOR ECONOMIC DATA.
ALL WE HAVE IN THE TREASURY
MARKETS IS THE TWO YEAR AND
FIVE YEAR AND SEVEN YEAR
OPTIONS. I GUESS IT WAS T.S.
ELIOT WHO SAID APRIL IS THE
CRUELEST MONTH.
IT IS FEELING LIKE MARCH IS A
CRUEL MONTH. IT IS ALMOST OVER.
WHAT HAS HAPPENED IS THE MARKET
IS VACILLATING WILDLY BETWEEN
WHAT THE FED WILL DO.
IT REMINDS US OF LAST APRIL.
REMEMBER TARIFFS?
THE FINANCIAL MARKETS WERE SO
VOLATILE. GO BACK TO LAST APRIL.
AT THE SAME TIME PEOPLE WERE
WORRIED ABOUT THE INFLATIONARY
ASPECTS FROM TARIFFS.
WHAT DID THE FIT END UP DOING?
75 BASIS POINTS WORTH OF CUTS.
LAST WEDNESDAY SEEMS LIKE A
LONG TIME AGO.
12 OF 19 FOMC GOVERNORS SAYING
THEY EXPECT AT LEAST ONE OR
MORE CUTS.
I AM NOT SURE HOW MUCH WE WILL
GET.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE BOND MARKETS
WE VACILLATED FROM AS RECENTLY
AS THREE WEEKS AGO PRICING IN
TWO CUTS.
YESTERDAY MORNING PRICING IN A
HIKE.
WHAT IS REALLY IMPORTANT IS TO
TAKE A STEP BACK.
TO US IT CONTINUES TO FEEL LIKE
A LOW HIGHER, LOW FIRE MARKET.
WHAT WE HAVE HAD A SIMILAR TO
LAST APRIL'S ANOTHER SUPPLY
SHOCK.
LAST YEAR IT WAS THE TARIFFS.
THIS YEAR IT IS ENERGY SUPPLY.
I DON'T THINK PEOPLE
ARE FOCUSED ON WHAT HIS
REACTION FUNCTION OF THE FED.
WHAT IS THE REACTION FUNCTION
OF THE AMERICAN CONSUMER?
YOU'VE HAD A SIGNIFICANT
TIGHTENING IN FINANCIAL
CONDITIONS.
NOT AS HIGH AS LAST APRIL BUT A
VERY RAPID RATCHETING UP IN
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS. ANNMARIE:
IT IS NOT A DIRECT COMPARISON.
THAT WAS A POLICY OF CHOICE
WHEN IT COMES TO LIBERATION DAY.
THIS IS DEMAND DESTRUCTION OF
SUPPLY CHAINS.
CAN THE FED LOOK THROUGH THAT?
KAY: I THINK THE FED DOES.
YOU HAD MIRAN ON BEFORE ME.
THE FED DOES LOOK THROUGH ANY
SUPPLY SHOPS.
WE HAVE TO LOOK AT WHAT IS THE
AMERICAN CONSUMER GOING TO DO
IN THE FACE OF HIGHER FOOD
PRICES, POTENTIALLY -- WHAT WE
HAVE SEEN ALREADY, HIGHER GAS
PRICES. JONATHAN:
WHAT ARE INVESTORS DOING?
WHAT ARE YOUR CLIENTS DOING?
4.40 ON TENS, ARE THEY STEPPING
IN? KAY: PEOPLE ARE STEPPING IN.
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT WEEK IN
THE BOND MARKET IN TERMS OF
SUPPLY. THE HIGH-YIELD MARKET IS
GENERATING 2 BILLION WORTH OF
SUPPLY SO IT IS IMPORTANT TO
SEE HOW THAT IS DIGESTED.
THE INVESTMENT GRADE MARKET HAD
A RECORD WEEK THREE WEEKS AGO.
35 BILLION.
QUIETER THIS WEEK BUT YESTERDAY
PRICED SEVEN OR $8 BILLION AND
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS
DEALS ARE FOUR TIMES
OVERSUBSCRIBED AND DEALS ARE
COMING WITH FOUR BASIS POINTS
OF CONCESSIONS.
WHEN I LOOK AT OUR ETF BOOK
YEAR TO DATE WE BROUGHT IN
ALMOST $8 BILLION.
CLIENTS ARE SEEING THE
ATTRACTIVE YIELDS.
YOU CAN GET 5%, 6%, 7%.
I HATE THE EXPRESSION BUT VALUE
HAS BEEN CREATED.
VALUE IS CREATED ON THE FRONT
END OF THE SPECTRUM.
VALUE HAS BEEN GRADED WHERE
SUPPLY HAS COME ON.
I THINK WHAT IS REALLY
IMPORTANT IS TO TAKE A STEP
BACK AND NOT GET TOO WORKED UP
ABOUT WHERE THE HEADLINES ARE.
NOT FOCUSED TOO MUCH ON
INTRADAY SWINGS.
BE WARY OF CATCHING FALLING
KNIVES.
OVERALL YIELDS REMAIN VERY
ATTRACTIVE. JONATHAN:
OR FALLING CHAINSAWS AT THE
MOMENT. KAY:
FALLING CHAINSAWS, I LIKE THAT.
JONATHAN:
LET'S GO WITH THE PHRASE VALUE
CREATION.
I SEE THE VALUE CREATION IN THE
TREASURY CURVE.
WHAT ABOUT THE CREDIT MARKET?
KAY: THERE HAS NOT BEEN A LOT OF
VALUE CREATED.
FROM THE TIGHTS TO THE WIDE'S
AND THE HIGH-YIELD WE HAVE
BACKED UP ABOUT 100 BASIS
POINTS.
IN TERMS OF IG MARKETS I THINK
WE ARE UP TO SOMETHING LIKE 87
BASIS POINTS.
WE WERE IN THE LOW 70'S SO THE
QUESTION IS A FUNCTION OF WHAT
DOES THE ECONOMY DO FROM HERE?
THE REASON THE HIGH-YIELD
SPREADS HAVE BEEN AS TIGHT AS
THEY ARE'S DEFAULT RATES HAVE
BEEN SO LOW.
WE ARE NOT GOING BACK TO A 2020
ERA. THERE IS NOT NEARLY AS MUCH
ENERGY AND ENERGY IS A MUCH
BETTER DEBT BACKDROP FOR THOSE
COMPANIES.
I THINK YOU HAVE HAD SOME
WIDENING.
IF WE ARE GOING TO GO INTO A
RECESSION TENS WILL NOT SIT
WHERE THEY ARE RIGHT NOW.
HIGH YIELDS WILL NOT SIT WHERE
THEY ARE RIGHT NOW. JONATHAN:
THAT IS THE RISK.
IT IS GOOD TO SEE YOU.
THANKS FOR BEING HERE.
KAY HERR OF J.P. MORGAN ASSET.
THAT WAS FAR TOO CALM RELATIVE
TO THE CRAZINESS OF THE LAST
WEEKS. ANNMARIE:
YESTERDAY WAS ONE OF THOSE
CRAZINESS.
I LOVE THE WAY YOU PUT IT,
FALLING CHAINSAWS RIGHT TREAT
SOCIAL POST. JONATHAN:
HANSEN BLENDERS.
I REMEMBER THAT FROM LONDON IN
THE EURO DEBT CRISIS. ANNMARIE:
IT IS ALMOST THAT TIMES 10.
JONATHAN:
COMING UP NEXT, THE FORMER
DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR AND GREG PETERS OF PGIM
FIXED INCOME.
THE SECOND HOUR OF "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE"
IS JUST AROUND THE CORNER.
♪
>> THE LONG-TERM IMPLICATION
FOR THE ECONOMY HAS NOT BEEN
PRICED IN COMPLETELY.
>> IT WILL MEAN HIGHER PRICES
BUT ALSO DAMPENS DEMAND.
>> MAY BE YOU JUST DO MUCH.
>> I DON'T THINK THERE IS A
REASON FOR CUTTING AT THIS
JUNCTURE.
>> THIS IS BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE WITH JONATHAN
FERRO, LISA ABRAMOWICZ, AND
ANNMARIE HORDERN. JONATHAN:
GOOD MORNING PURE FOR AUDIENCE
WORLDWIDE, THE SECOND HOUR OF
BLOOMBERG SURVEILLANCE STARTS
NOW. EQUITY FUTURES JUST ABOUT
UNCHANGED, FOLLOWING WILD
SWINGS.
THE BIGGEST ONE-DAY RALLY OF
THE S&P IN SIX WEEKS AND A BIG
MOVE IN CRUDE.
ABOUT 24 HOURS AGO, JUST
REMOVING NEAR TERM ESCALATION
RISK, THE PROSPECT OF TALKS IN
THE NEXT SEVERAL DAYS. ANNMARIE:
YOU HAVE A NUMBER OF COUNTRIES
SAYING I WANT TO BE THE WANT TO
DO THAT, PAKISTAN, EGYPT,
TURKEY.
HOW SUSTAINABLE AND REAL IS
THIS?
YOU MADE A GOOD POINT EARLIER.
THEY ARE ABOUT TO
ARRIVE AT THE TIME OF THE
DEADLINE SO THERE IS
SPECULATION THAT THE PRESIDENT
IS BUYING TIME. JONATHAN:
THERE'S A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
PRICING NEAR TERM ESCALATION
RISK AND PRICING IN LONG
ENDURING PEACE.
I DO NOT THINK ANYONE IS
GETTING TOO EXCITED ABOUT THE
PROSPECT SOMETHING THAT TAKES
ALL THIS OFF THE TABLE.
REMEMBER WHERE WE WERE THIS
TIME YESTERDAY.
BEFORE THAT POST, THERE WAS A
REAL RISK OF REAL ESCALATION IN
THE MIDDLE EAST WHICH WOULD
DRAG AND GOLF PARTNERS AND LEAD
TO SOMETHING EVEN MESSIER THAN
WHAT WE SEE ALREADY.
>> THE PRESIDENT HAD A THREAT
ON THE TABLE THAT HE NEATLY
TOOK OFF WITH THAT POST AND
THAT IS WHY WE SAW THE WEB SAW
IN FINANCIAL MARKETS BUT HOW DO
YOU PRICE IN LONG-TERM PEACE
WOULD OVERNIGHT THERE WAS
CONTINUED ATTACKS WHEN IT COMES
TO MISSILES AND DRONES?
ON TOP OF THAT, THERE IS
REPORTING THAT WE HAVE AS WELL
AS WHAT GOES FURTHER IN THE
JOURNAL ABOUT HOW GOLF PARTNERS
SAUDI ARABIA UAE MAY BE WILLING
TO MAYBE TRY THIS CONFLICT.
JONATHAN:
FUTURES SO FAR NEGATIVE BY
ABOUT .2% ON THE S&P 500.
HE WRITES, VOLATILITY REDUCES
RISK TAKING.
WE SEE OPPORTUNITY TO OWN THE
COMPANIES WE BELIEVE ARE
TRADING AT DEPRESSED PRICES.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THOSE NOW.
THAT FIRST LINE, VOLATILITY
REDUCES RISK TAKING, HOW MUCH
REDUCTION IN RISK
TAKING HAVE WE SEEN GIVEN HOW
VOLATILE THESE HAVE BEEN?
>> WE ARE NOT LEVELS WHERE I
VIEW VOLATILITY AS CREATING
SIGNIFICANT DOWNSIDE RISK TO
THE MARKETS AND THAT NUMBER FOR
ME ON HEADLINE VIX WOULD BE
ABOUT A 30 SO IF YOU LOOK AT
VIX OVER THE LAST THREE WEEKS
WE HAVE NOT HIT 30.
WE HAVE ALMOST HIT 30 BUT WE
ARE NOT THERE.
IT GIVES ME PAUSE THAT IF THE
PRESIDENT IS NOT LOOKING FOR AN
OFFRAMP AND DELAYING WHAT MAY
BE A BOOTS ON THE GROUND SORT
OF SCENARIO, WE COULD HAVE ALL
SPIKES ABOVE 30 AND MORE
DOWNSIDE RISKS. JONATHAN:
THERE IS A LOT OF SPECULATION
NOW, ABOUT SPECULATION AND
PERCEPTION.
A LOT OF SPECULATION AT THE
MOMENT THAT SOME PEOPLE HAVE AN
EDGE THAT OTHERS DO NOT.
AND INSIDE LINE ON WHAT OTHER
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO HAPPEN AT
THEIR WEE STATEMENTS THEY DO
NOT KNOW ABOUT.
I WONDER IF WE HAVE A REDUCTION
NOW IN TRUST AND THAT THERE IS
SPECULATION THAT WE ARE AT
LEAST -- SOME PEOPLE HAVE AN
EDGE THAT WE DO NOT AND I WANT
TO UNDERSTAND WHETHER THAT
LEADS TO REDUCTION IN LIQUIDITY
IN THIS MARKET.
I AM A FINANCIAL MARKET
PARTICIPANT AND I BELIEVE
SOMEONE MIGHT HAVE AN EDGE THAT
DO I WANT TO TAKE
RISK IN THAT MARKET?
DO I WANT TO PUT MY MONEY TO
WORK?
>> YOU WERE ALLUDING TO WHAT
TRANSPIRED YESTERDAY.
WHICH WAS UNFORTUNATE AND DID
NOT INSTILL TRUST IN MYSELF OR
THE MARKET AND IF IT WERE SOME
SORT OF COMMUNICATION THAT
OCCURRED IN THE ADMINISTRATION
PRIOR TO THE PRESIDENT'S
ANNOUNCEMENT OF A HIATUS, WE
SAW A SELLING OF CRUDE FUTURES
JUST BEFORE THAT ANNOUNCEMENT,
JUST BEFORE WE SAW CRUDE PRICES
FALTER.
WE SAW A SIGNIFICANT PURCHASE
OF S&P FUTURES ON THE UPSIDE
WITH THE IDEA THE MARKET WAS
GOING TO BLOW OFF TOP IN A
POSITIVE WAY.
THAT WAS AN EMBARRASSING MOMENT
POTENTIALLY IF IN FACT AS AN
AMERICAN IF THAT WAS SOMETHING
THAT COULD HAVE BEEN AVOIDED.
PERHAPS THERE WAS A
COMMUNICATION ACROSS OUR ALLIES
AND PERHAPS SOME OF THESE
ACTIONS OCCURRED FROM
PARTICIPANTS IN THE MIDDLE EAST
RATHER THAN IN THE MINISTRATION
SO I WANT TO BE CAUTIOUS ABOUT
POINTING FINGERS AT ANYONE ON
THAT FRONT BUT IT WAS HIGHLY
SUSPICIOUS. ANNMARIE:
AND VERY EMBARRASSING AS AN
AMERICAN OF THIS IS TRUE.
IF YOU SEE THIS HAPPENING, DOES
IT MAKE YOU WANT TO SAY I AM
PACKING UP AND I DIDN'T WANT TO
BE INVOLVED IN IN THE MARKET
NOW?
>> WE CANNOT DO THAT.
IF YOU TAKE A STEP BACK, WHAT
DRIVES MARKETS ARE THE ABILITY
FOR CORPORATIONS TO GENERATE
EARNINGS.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE S&P,
EARNINGS ESTIMATES HAVE TRENDED
HIGHER PEER AND ESME'S FOR THE
NEXT 12 MONTHS OR SOMETHING
LIKE 16% GROWTH RATE.
THE COOL WAY TO SOMETHING LIKE
10%, THE MARKETS TRADING AT
20.5 TIMES ON THE S&P.
SO WE THINK THERE IS THE NOISE
OF THE POLITICS AND POLICY AT
THE MOMENT AND IT HAS
APPLICATIONS FOR THINGS LIKE
SUPPLY CONSTRAINTS.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN FOR INFLATION?
HOW ARE CONSUMERS THINKING
ABOUT THIS AND WHAT DOES IT
MEAN FOR OVERALL GROWTH?
AS INVESTORS WE HAVE TO LOOK AT
THE COMPANIES AND SECTORS AND
ASK OURSELVES THE QUESTIONS,
WHETHER THESE POSITIVE TRENDS
CAN CONTINUE AFTER THE WAR.
JONATHAN:
I'M ALWAYS LOOKING FOR THE
POCKET OF TENSION AND THAT IS
WHERE THE POCKET OF TENSION IS
FOR ME.
HIGHER THAN WHERE WE WERE
BEFORE BY $20.
WE HAVE REPRICED INTEREST RATES
AND TAKE OUT EASING ON THE
MARGIN.
WHETHER THAT IS TOO FAR AS A
SEPARATE DEBATE BUT WE HAVE NOT
-- YOU HAVE THE PROSPECT OF
TIGHTER FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
AND THEN HIGHER EARNINGS AND
THAT IS THE POINT OF TENSION
FOR ME.
WHY HAS THE EARNINGS OUTLOOK
IMPROVED AT THE SAME TIME THAT
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS HAVE
GOTTEN TIGHTER?
>> THE ELEPHANT IN THE S&P 500
ROOM REMAINS TECHNOLOGY AND IF
YOU LOOK AT THE UPSIDE TRENDS
OVER THE LAST COUPLE WEEKS, IT
COMES FROM SEMI CONDUCTORS.
TO SOME EXTENT, ENERGY SO WE
ARE NOT SEEING THAT BROADENING
OF THE STORY.
I STILL THINK THE PROCYCLICAL
EQUITY TRADE HAS NOT BROKEN
DOWN.
IF YOU LOOK AT OTHER KEY AREAS
WITHIN THE ECONOMY, JAPAN IS UP
ON THE YEAR.
EMERGING MARKETS ARE UP MID
SINGLE DIGITS ON THE YEAR.
THEY HAVE CORRECTED MORE OF THE
LAST MONTH THAN THE MAG 7 BUT
THAT PROCYCLICAL TRADE IS NOT
OVER AND WE THINK THERE ARE
TAILWINDS IF THIS DURATION OF
THIS IRANIAN INVASION CAN PROVE
SHORTER AND NOT LONGER.
IF IT IS ANOTHER MONTH AND NOT
ANOTHER SIX MONTHS, THEN I
THINK WE CAN MOVE BACK AND
FOCUS ON GROWTH AND EARNINGS
AND PROBABLY THINK THAT THE
CONCEPT OF INFLATION RUNNING
AWAY LIKE JUNE 2022 WHERE IT
PEEKED OVER 9% HEADLINE IS NOT
GOING TO TRANSPIRE. ANNMARIE:
DRONE ACTIVITY SHOW TECH
COMPANIES ARE NOT IMMUNE TO
WHAT IS GOING ON IN THE MIDDLE
EAST. AWS OUT THE STATE WITH
THAT THEY HAVE SUFFERED.
AT SOME POINT, WHEN IT COMES TO
THOSE EARNINGS, THESE COMPANIES
THAT WERE IN THE GOLF INVESTING
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS, WILL THAT
SUFFER?
>> IT COULD.
WAR ALSO TENDS TO TRIGGER MORE
SPENDING AFTER THE STORM HAS
PASSED AND WE HAVE SEEN THAT
TIME AND TIME AGAIN.
THE OTHER THING WE HAVE SEEN IS
THAT USUALLY DURING THE FIRST
SORT OF INITIAL PHASES OF WAR
WE HAVE SEEN THE GREATEST
SPIKES IN THE FEAR FACTOR ON
THE VIX AND THEN WE SEE A
CALMING AFFECT OCCUR.
ARE WE ENTERING THAT PHASE NOW
AND DID IT START YESTERDAY?
ONLY TIME WILL TELL.
IS THIS AN OFFRAMP FOR THE
PRESIDENT OR A DELAY TO BRING
IN TROOPS FROM ASIA, TO PUT
BOOTS ON THE GROUND AND FOR
THIS TO ACCELERATE FURTHER?
THAT LATTER THOUGHT WOULD BE A
NEGATIVE FOR EQUITY MARKETS.
JONATHAN:
THAT IS THE TWO WAY RISK INTO
THE WEEKEND.
BIG MOVE IN GOLD THIS MONTH,
DOWN ABOUT DOUBLE DIGITS SO FAR
FOR MARCH.
THIS HEADLINE ACROSS MOMENTS
AGO, TAPPING 135 MILLION DOLLAR
GOLD RESERVES TO DEFEND THE
TURKISH LIRA.
THERE HAS BEEN SPECULATION
ABOUT THIS, THAT THE COUNTRIES
WHO HAVE LIMITED PHYSICAL SPACE
AND RESERVES TO DEAL WITH
MOMENTS LIKE THIS, MAYBE
COUNTRIES LIKE TURKEY, WOULD
HAVE TO MONETIZE THOSE GOLD
RESERVES.
ARE YOU EXPECTING TO SEE SOME
OF THAT REALIZE?
>> IT COULD OCCUR.
GOLD IS OFF ABOUT 000 AN
OUNCE SINCE IT PEEKED EARLIER
IN LATE JANUARY AND IT IS OUT
ABOUT 5400 AND NOW ABOUT 4400
AND THERE ARE THREE THOUGHTS I
HAVE ON THIS.
ONE IS CENTRAL BANKS ARE NOT
BUYING GOLD AND THEY MAY
ACTUALLY BE SELLING GOLD BUT IT
IS THE SECOND LARGEST GLOBAL
RESERVE CURRENCY.
WE HAVE THE DOLLAR AND GOLD AND
EVERYTHING ELSE.
THE OTHER IS RETAIL SPECULATION.
WHEN YOU HAVE HEIGHTENED
VOLATILITY AND YOU NEED TO
RAISE CAPITAL, ARE YOU GOING TO
DO IT AND THINGS THAT HAVE GONE
UP? GOLD WAS UP 70% LAST YEAR SO
THERE HAS BEEN RATIONALE FOR
LIQUIDITY IN GOLD BUT IN THE
LONG RUN THE DOLLAR IS STRONGER.
MY VIEW IS GOLD REMAINS A FORM
OF MONEY.
IT IS WELL TESTED FOR 4500
YEARS.
IF THE DOLLAR IS STRONG, GOLD
WILL PROBABLY BE UNDER PRESSURE.
IF THE DOLLAR WERE TO WEAKEN,
GOLD MAY BE POISED TO GAIN
STEAM. JONATHAN:
WHAT IS THE ROLE IN THE
PORTFOLIO OF GOLD?
WHAT IS IT PROVIDING?
>> FROM A LONGER-TERM BALANCE
PERSPECTIVE IT IS A CURRENCY
DIVERSIFICATION TOOL.
IN THIS MARKET ENVIRONMENT, WE
HAVE SEEN THE DOLLAR
STRENGTHENED. GOLD HAS BEEN OFF.
EQUITIES HAVE BEEN OFF.
THEY HAVE BEEN FEW PLACES TO
HIDE OTHER THAN CASH. JONATHAN:
GOLD DOWN BIG TIME OVER
THE MONTH SO FAR.
IF YOU'RE JUST RUNNING US,
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM, STOCKS
JUST ABOUT UNCHANGED ON THE S&P.
WITH YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF AND
YOUR STORIES WORLDWIDE, YAHAIRA
HAS MORE. YAHAIRA:
DAY 25 OF THE IRAN WAR AND
ATTACKS ARE CONTINUING ON BOTH
SIDES EVEN AFTER PRESIDENT
TRUMP SAID HE IS HOLDING OFF ON
GOING AFTER IRAN'S ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE, SAYING U.S.
ENVOYS SPOKE WITH A TOP PERSON
IN IRAN ON SUNDAY BUT THAT IT
IS NOT THE NEW SUPREME
LEADER.
IRANIAN OFFICIALS SAY THEY ARE
ROLLING OUT DISCUSSIONS WITH
THE U.S.. AN INDIAN REFINER HAS
REPORTEDLY PURCHASED 5 MILLION
BARRELS OF IRANIAN OIL.
REUTERS REPORTED THE MOVE AFTER
THE U.S.
TEMPORARILY HALTED SANCTIONS ON
THE OIL.
A SOURCE TOLD A NEWS OUTLET THE
CRUDE WAS PRICED AT A PREMIUM
OF ABOUT SEVEN DOLLARS A BARREL.
APOLLO IS CURBING REDEMPTIONS
FROM ONE OF ITS LARGEST
NONTRADED PRIVATE CREDIT FUNDS.
ACCORDING TO A SHAREHOLDER
LETTER, THE BUSINESS DEVELOPER
AND COMPANY APOLLO DEBT
SOLUTIONS CAP WITHDRAWALS AT 5%
OF OUTSTANDING SHARES OF
CLIENTS SOUGHT TO REDEEM MORE
THAN 11%.
THAT IS YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF.
JONATHAN:
NEXT ON THE PROGRAM, TEEING UP
A DEAL WITH IRAN.
>> I THINK THERE IS A GOOD
CHANCE WE'LL END UP IN A DEAL
AND SO WE ARE GIVING IT FIVE
DAYS AND THEN WE WILL SEE WHERE
THAT TAKES US. JONATHAN:
QUITE A FIVE DAYS COMING UP.
WE WILL CATCH UP WITH THE
FORMER DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISOR. GOOD MORNING.
♪
JONATHAN:
I AM MENTIONED THERE IS A
COLLECTIVE SIGH OF RELIEF THIS
IS WHERE WE ARE WAKING UP THIS
MORNING.
EQUITY FUTURES UNCHANGED ON THE
S&P 500, -.1%.
LIKEWISE ON THE NASDAQ.
IN THE COMMODITY MARKET BRENT
AND WTI FAIRLY WELL BEHAVED
RELATIVELY SPEAKING.
BRENT CRUDE 01.66.
WTI $90. ANNMARIE:
THIS TIME YESTERDAY MORNING WE
SAW MOVES OF 10% OR 12% ON WTI
AND BRENT.
WE WENT INTO YESTERDAY WITH
THIS ULTIMATUM FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE, YOU HAVE 48 HOURS.
NOW THE NEW DEADLINE IS FRIDAY,
POTENTIALLY A WINDOW FOR
DIPLOMATIC TALKS OR POTENTIALLY
THIS IS JUST THE PRESIDENT
BUYING TIME BECAUSE HE HAS
TROOPS BEING SENT TO THE REGION.
JONATHAN:
THIS MORNING COULD HAVE BEEN A
VERY DIFFERENT MORNING.
TEEING UP A DEAL WITH IRAN.
>> THERE IS A VERY GOOD CHANCE
WE WILL END UP IN A DEAL THAT
WE ARE GIVING FIVE DAYS AND WE
WILL SEE WHERE THAT TAKES US
AND I WOULD SAY AT THE END OF
THIS PERIOD IT COULD VERY WELL
END UP BEING A VERY GOOD DEAL
FOR EVERYBODY, AS GOOD AS IF WE
WENT ALL THE WAY AND LITERALLY
ANNIHILATED THE PLACE.
WHICH IF WE DO NOT HAVE TO DO
THAT THAT WOULD BE A GOOD THING.
JONATHAN:
CRUDE PRICES HOVERING NEAR 100
AS PRESIDENT TRUMP STRIKES ON
IRANIAN POWER.
THE PRESIDENT HAILING STRONG
TALKS WITH IRAN, CLAIM DENIED
BY TEHRAN.
BLOOMBERG'S MIKE SHEPARD JOINS
US FOR MORE.
WHO IS TALKING TO WHO, WHO IS
MEDIATING, AND WHERE THE TALKS
TAKING PLACE? MIKE:
IT IS UNCLEAR WHAT THE STATE OF
THE TALKS IS BECAUSE THE
PRESIDENT HAS SAID HIS SPECIAL
ENVOY STEVE WITKOFF AND HIS
SON-IN-LAW HAVE BEEN ENGAGING
IN TALKS WITH A TOP PERSON IN
IRAN BUT IRAN HAS PUSHED BACK
AGAINST ANY NOTION OF THESE
CONVERSATIONS TAKING PLACE.
WE ARE AWARE THAT THE FOREIGN
MINISTER OF IRAN HAS BEEN
ENGAGING WITH NEGOTIATIONS WITH
REGIONAL COUNTERPARTS.
THEY HAVE SERVED IN THE PAST AS
INTERMEDIARIES BETWEEN
WASHINGTON AND TEHRAN SO THAT
MAY BE WHERE THINGS ARE GETTING
STARTED IN TERMS OF
CONVERSATION.
FIVE DAYS FROM NOW MAY SOUND
LIKE A LOT OF TIME BUT WHEN YOU
THINK ABOUT NEGOTIATIONS WITH
IRAN HISTORICALLY, THAT IS NOT
MUCH TIME AT ALL.
THE 2015 IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL TOOK
NEARLY TWO YEARS TO REACH AND
THAT WAS THE AGREEMENT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP GRABBED
SOON AFTER TAKING OFFICE THE
FIRST TIME AROUND.
IT IN PART LAID THE GROUNDWORK
FOR WHERE WE ARE RIGHT NOW.
IT IS IMPORTANT TO NOTE THERE
IS INCENTIVE ON ALL SIDES TO
REACH A DEAL.
FRY RAN THE HUMAN TOLL IS
RISING.
ONE HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP HAS
ESTIMATED AS MANY AS 3200
CASUALTIES IN IRAN.
THAT NUMBER IS NOT CONFIRMED.
THE LONGER THIS GOES ON THERE
IS THE RISING RISK THIS
ESCALATES MILITARILY IN THE
PROSPECT THE U.S.
COULD ENTER IN TERMS OF A
GROUND PRESENCE IN IRAN, EITHER
BY TRYING TO TAKE KHARG ISLAND,
A KEY ENERGY HUB CONTROLLED BY
IRAN IS ONE POSSIBILITY.
OR A MOVE TO TRY TO WREST
CONTROL OF THE CRITICAL
CHOKEPOINT OF THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ IS ANOTHER QUESTION.
THEN THERE IS THE GULF ALLIES
THEMSELVES AND WHETHER THEY MAY
DECIDE ULTIMATELY WHETHER THEY
NEED TO ENTER THE CONFLICT
MILITARILY ON THEIR OWN TERMS.
THEY HAVE STAYED ON THE
SIDELINES AND LET THE U.S.
AND ISRAEL CARRY OUT A LOT OF
THE STRIKES FOR NOW.
THE CHALLENGE IS HOW THE U.S.
AND IRAN AND ISRAEL
GET THERE. THE U.S.
AND ISRAEL WILL BE ON THE SAME
PAGE AND WHAT WILL IRAN EXCEPT
AND WHAT WILL THE U.S.
BE ASKING FOR?
WE CAN BE SURE THERE WILL BE A
CALL FOR THE U.S.
TO TAKE CONTROL OF IRAN'S
NUCLEAR STOCKPILE WITHIN THEIR
IS THE QUESTION OF THE STRAIT
OF HORMUZ.
WILL THERE BE SOME SORT OF
EFFORT TO INCLUDE THAT AND A
GUARANTEE OF FREEDOM OF
MOVEMENT AS PART OF THESE TALKS.
WE WILL HAVE TO SEE WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAYS LATER TODAY
DURING A SWEARING-IN CEREMONY
AT THE WHITE HOUSE IF HE HAS
ANYTHING MORE TO ADD ON THE
STATUS OF THOSE DISCUSSIONS.
JONATHAN: APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
MIKE SHEPARD, FORMER DEPUTY
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR HE
VICTORIA COATES WRITING "THE
FIVE DAY PUSHBACK IS A
CALCULATED PAUSE FROM THE
PRESIDENT.
THINGS ARE GOING VERY POORLY
FOR THE IRANIANS, GIVING THEM
ALL THE INCENTIVE IN THE WORLD
TO AGREE TO A DEAL."
IF TORI A, WELCOME BACK TO RED
LET'S TALK ABOUT -- VICTORIA,
WELCOME BACK.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE OUTLINES
OF THAT DEAL. VICTORIA:
THE DEAL IS FAIRLY SIMPLE IN
ITS PARAMETERS AS I UNDERSTAND
IT. THE NUCLEAR STOCKPILE HAS TO
GET DEALT WITH.
ABOUT 850 POUNDS OF HIGHLY
ENRICHED URANIUM, THAT NEEDS TO
COME OUT OF IRAN.
THAT IS A MATERIAL STEP TO
PREVENTING THEM TO GETTING A
NUCLEAR WEAPON.
THE NUCLEAR FACILITIES NEED TO
BE DISABLED.
WE NEED TO GET AFTER DUAL USE
FACILITIES WHERE A LOT OF THE
RESEARCH HAPPENS.
WE ALSO NEED TO SEE THE
ENTIRETY OF THEIR MISSILE
PROGRAM, WHICH IS SO MUCH
DEADLIER THAN WE THOUGHT IT WAS
JUST THREE DAYS AGO AFTER THE
ATTACK ON DIEGO GARCIA REVEALED
THEY HAVE 4000 KILOMETERS OF
RANGE, NOT 2000 LIKE THEY
CLAIMED.
WE NEED THAT TO GET CLEANED UP.
A LOT OF THAT WORK HAS BEEN
DONE.
AND THEN HAVE A GUARANTEE THE
IRANIAN REGIME WILL NOT ATTACK
THE IRANIAN PEOPLE IF THEY
DECIDE TO PROTEST. THOSE ARE
THE BASIC POINTS THAT SHOULD BE
NOT THAT DIFFICULT FOR THE
IRANIANS TO AGREE TO IF THE
REGIME WISHES TO SURVIVE IN ANY
FORM. ANNMARIE:
AS YOU KNOW IN WASHINGTON THIS
SAYING IS PERSONNEL IS POLICY
AND WE UNDERSTAND POTENTIALLY
AN INDIVIDUAL IN IRAN THEY ARE
SPEAKING TO IS THE IRANIAN
SPEAKER OF PARLIAMENT.
WHO ARE THE IRANIANS TALKING TO
ON THE AMERICAN SIDE.
REPORTS WERE FLYING THAT EVEN
MAY BE VICE PRESIDENT JD VANCE
MIGHT BECOME PART OF THE
NEGOTIATING TEAM. VICTORIA:
GOOD TO SEE YOU.
IT IS A COMPLICATED SITUATION
AND I THINK THE ADMINISTRATION
IS LEAVING IT DELIBERATELY
OPAQUE.
IT IS NOT CLEAR IF THE SPEAKER
-- HE IS WELL KNOWN IN IRAN.
HE HAS RUN FOR PRESIDENT A
COUPLE TIMES AND HAS DEEP TIES TO
THE ISLAMIC REBEL GUARD CORPS.
HE COULD BE A FIGURE BUT IT
SEEMS QUITE CHAOTIC IN IRAN.
NO ONE KNOWS IF THE SUPREME
LEADER IS ALIVE.
HE HAS NOT BEEN SEEN.
WE HAVE NOT HEARD FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF IRAN IN A
CONSISTENT WAY.
THIS MAY BE A DEATH SPIRAL FOR
THIS PARTICULAR GOVERNMENT OF
IRAN. ONE OTHER POINT FOR YOUR
AUDIENCE IS THE ECONOMIC
PROBLEMS IN IRAN ARE SYSTEMIC
AND THEY ARE NOT FIXABLE.
TWO MONTHS AGO THEY ANNOUNCED
THEIR LARGEST BANKNOTE EVER.
TWO DAYS AGO THEY ANNOUNCED A
0 MILLION NOTE WHICH IS WORTH
ABOUT SEVEN DOLLARS.
THAT IS NOT A SUSTAINABLE PATH
FOR ANY KIND OF MODERN ECONOMY.
WHAT HAPPENS TO IRAN
ECONOMICALLY IS THE SECOND
FRONT END THIS WAR. ANNMARIE:
WHEN IT COMES TO THE PRESIDENT
PUTTING OUT A FIVE DAY DEADLINE
ON POTENTIALLY THESE
NEGOTIATIONS, DO YOU THINK HE
REALLY WANTS A DIPLOMATIC ROUTE
OR IS HE BUYING TIME? VICTORIA:
I THINK HE ALWAYS ONCE A
DIPLOMATIC ROUTE.
IN THE FIRST TERM WE WORKED ON
THE DIPLOMATIC CHANNELS FOR A
YEAR BEFORE WE CEASED
COMPLIANCE WITH THE JOINT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF ACTION,
THE OBAMA ERA NUCLEAR DEAL.
HE GAVE DIPLOMACY A YEAR OF
CHANCE IN THE SECOND TERM AS
WELL. THAT ALWAYS IS POSSIBLE.
AT THE SAME TIME YOU WANT TO
WATCH WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
DOES, NOT NECESSARILY EVERY
WORD HE SAYS.
IN THIS CASE WE HAVE THE MARINE
GROUP STEAMING TOWARDS THE
REGION COME ELEMENTS OF THE
82ND TURNING UP AND THE GERALD
R.
FORD WHICH HAD TO GO TO CYPRUS
FOR MAINTENANCE IS ALSO COMING
BACK. FIVE DAYS AS A CONVENIENT
AMOUNT OF TIME FOR ALL OF TIME
FOR ALL THOSE THINGS TO GET
INTO PLACE.
IF NOTHING ELSE THAT IS
ADDITIONAL LEVERAGE FOR ANY
DIPLOMACY THAT DOES TAKE PLACE.
JONATHAN:
THE IRANIAN SEEING THE SAME
THING.
VICTORIA COATES WITH THE LATEST
IN THE REGION.
THE CALENDAR IS SET UP.
POTENTIAL FOR DE-ESCALATION AND
ESCALATION OVER THE WEEKEND.
ANNMARIE:
AND WE HAD SEEN THIS IN THE
PAST WHEN THE GERALD FORD WAS
HEADED TO THE REGION.
THE PRESIDENT SAID WE WOULD
HAVE ANOTHER ROUND OF TALKS AND
THEN THE GERALD FORD WENT TO
THE REGION AND THE STRIKES
HAPPENED.
POTENTIALLY LOOKING THIS, THE
PRESIDENT COULD BE OFFERING THE
IRANIANS AND OFFRAMP.
AGREE ON THESE TERMS THAT
VICTORIA JUST OUTLINED, THE
TERMS THIS ADMINISTRATION WANTS
TO SEE.
MAYBE THERE COULD BE A DEAL.
IF NOT EVERYTHING WILL BE IN
PLACE BY FRIDAY. JONATHAN:
THE ECONOMY IS BROKEN AND
LEADERSHIP IS FRACTURED.
IT NOT SURPRISE ME WHEN WE SEE
HEADLINE SAYING IRAN DENIES THE
TALKS.
WHO IN IRAN WOULD BE HAVING THE
TALKS THAT WANTS TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THEY ARE HAVING THE TALKS?
THEY ARE PROBLEMS WE ARE ALL
GRAPPLING WITH AND WRESTLING
WITH IN FINANCIAL MARKETS.
IT IS DIFFICULT TO KNOW WHAT IS
GOING ON. ANNMARIE:
IT IS AND UNDERSTANDING WHO IS
RUNNING IT INTERNALLY IS
CHALLENGING.
EVERYONE IS TALKING ABOUT THE
IRANIAN PARLIAMENT SPEAKER.
WE ALSO HAVE A NEW OFFICIAL
THAT IS DUE TO BE THE HEAD OF
THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL.
ALL OF THESE NAMES COULD BE
COUNTERPARTS. JONATHAN:
COMING UP WE TALK ABOUT CRUDE.
WHAT COULD DRIVE BRENT TO 50
A BARREL.
YOU ARE WATCHING BLOOMBERG TV.
♪
JONATHAN:
EQUITIES DOWN BY .1% ON THE S&P
500, PULLING BACK FOLLOWING
YESTERDAY'S BIG GAINS.
THE RUSSELL WITH A TWO PERCENT
MOVE IN YESTERDAY'S SESSION,
PULLING BACK, DOWN ABOUT POINT
1%.
IN THE BOND MARKET, LET'S TALK
ABOUT WERE TWOS WERE YESTERDAY.
THE PRESIDENT STATING HE IS
GOING TO TAKE OFF THAT
DE-ESCALATION AND PUSH THINGS
BACK A FEW DAYS.
NOW FIVE DAYS OF TALKS COMING
UP FOR THE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S.
AND POTENTIALLY IRAN. ANNMARIE:
ALSO MAYBE FIVE DAYS OF THE
PRESIDENT BUYING MORE TIME AS
WE HAVE MORE AMERICAN HARDWARE
AND THOUSANDS OF MARINES HEADED
TO THE REGION, WHICH STRIKES ME
IS WHAT THE PRESIDENT’'S TROOPS
AND WHAT YOU HEAR FROM THE
ENERGY SECTOR -- CHEVRON SPEAK
YESTERDAY ABOUT HOW THE FUTURES
MARKET AND THE PHYSICAL MARKET
COULD NOT BE FURTHER FROM THE
TRUTH OF EACH OTHER IN TERMS OF
WHAT IS HAPPENING WITH ACTUAL
CRUDE AND PRODUCT ON THE GROUND
AND THAT IS WHY YOU SEE A LOT
OF GRADES PRICED HIGHER, CLOSER
TO $200 A BARREL THAN 100.
JONATHAN:
WE SAID THIS YESTERDAY.
YOU CAN PUSH AROUND THE PAPER
MARKET WITH HEADLINES.
THE PHYSICAL MARKET NEEDS
DEMAND AND SUPPLY AND WHAT YOU
ARE SEEING NOW IN CERTAIN
PLACES AND INDUSTRIES WITH
CRUDE PRODUCT, YOU ARE SEEING
GENUINE SHORTAGES. ANNMARIE:
ABSOLUTELY.
BUT WE SEE FROM CHINA'S BIGGEST
OIL COMPANY, SAYING WE ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO CURB EXPORTS
OR PRODUCTS, WHAT YOU ARE
SEEING IN INDIAN WEDDING
CATERERS SAYING WE ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO CUT BACK ON MENUS
BECAUSE WE DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS.
90% GOES TO THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ.
YOU ARE SEEING SUPPLY SHOCKS IN
ASIA THAT WILL RIPPLE THROUGH
TO EUROPE. JONATHAN:
BRENT CRUDE POSITIVE BY 1.8%,
WTI IN THE 90'S THIS MORNING.
YOUR MORNING MOVERS WITH DANI
BURGER.
>> APOLLO SHARES ARE DOWN 2.2%
AFTER SEEING ABOUT 1.6 BILLION
DOLLARS OF REDEMPTIONS COME
FROM ONE OF THEIR BDC'S.
THEY DO NOT FULLY REDEEM THAT
PEER THE FUND STRUCTURES HAVE
REDEMPTION GATE A 5%, SOMETHING
THEY HAVE TALKED ABOUT IN THE
PAST, THAT FUNDS SHOULD HONOR
WHAT THEY HAVE AND WHAT THEY
TELL INVESTORS.
THEY DID GET A DOWNGRADE,
CITING THE REDEMPTIONS AS WELL
AS PRESSURE AROUND ASSET-BACKED
CAPITAL AND AT THE SAME TIME
VOLATILITY, WHICH MIGHT
CONTRIBUTE TO MORE REDEMPTIONS.
LOOKING AT JEFFERIES THIS
MORNING, THE JAPANESE BANK SMSG
IS LOOKING AT A BID TO TAKE
OVER JEFFERIES.
IT ALREADY OWNS A MINORITY
STAKE. THEY ARE LOOKING AT
OPPORTUNISTIC MOMENTS TO BUY
MORE INTO JEFFERIES, DOWN ABOUT
40% FROM ITS PEAK LAST YEAR WAS
SHARES UP 7.5% IN THE PREMARKET.
NETGEAR SHARES ARE HIGHER THIS
MORNING, UP ABOUT 12.3% AFTER A
NEW FCC MANDATE THAT ALL
ROUTERS MADE ABROAD SHOULD NOT
BE USED IN THE U.S..
NOW NETGEAR POINTS OUT THEY DO
MAKE THEIR RAPTORS ABROAD BUT
NOT IN CHINA AND THAT IS KEY
THAT THE FCC WILL GIVE
QUALIFICATIONS TO ALLOW SOME
THROUGHOUT THE FACT THAT
NETGEAR IS AN AMERICAN COMPANY
WITH A TRANSPARENT SUPPLY CHAIN
PEER THEY ARE SITTING IN A GOOD
POSITION. JONATHAN:
THANKS FOR THE UPDATE.
WARNINGS FROM U.S.
ALLIES IN THE GULF
DRIVING PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
DECISION TO HOLD OFF ON
DESTROYING POWER INFRASTRUCTURE.
SOME TOLD THE PRESIDENT OF THE
WAR WAS BECOMING A DISASTER.
ELSEWHERE, THE PENTAGON
WEIGHING THE DEPLOYMENT OF
TROOPS INTO IRAN.
THE SOLDIERS COULD BE USED
ALONGSIDE MARINES TO SEIZE
KHARG ISLAND AND JAPAN'S FINEST
MINISTRY CONSIDERING
INTERVENTION TO EASE PRESSURE
ON THE COMMODITY.
TOKYO SAYING IS READY TO TAKE
ALL POSSIBLE MEASURES AT ALL
TIMES AND ON ALL FRONTS TO
PROTECT THE YEN FROM VOLATILE
COMMODITY SPECULATION. ANNMARIE:
THIS IS SOMETHING A NUMBER OF
CAPITALS ARE WEIGHING.
HOW DO WE GET AHEAD OF THIS IN
TERMS OF THE ENERGY SHOCK AND
WHAT IS HAPPENING IN THE PAPER
MARKET AND THE WILD SWINGS?
IT REMINDS ME OF WHEN YOU HAD
THE JAPANESE OFFICIALS GOING TO
MARKET PARTICIPANTS IN TERMS OF
A RATE TO CHECK AND NOW THEY
ARE GOING TO PARTICIPANTS IN
TERMS OF A CRUISE CHECK.
JONATHAN: IT HITS BOTH WAYS.
CURRENCY IS GETTING WEAKER AND
YOU HAVE THE CRUDE PRICE
GETTING HIGHER.
THAT IS A PROBLEM FOR A LOT OF
IMPORTERS. ANNMARIE:
THAT IS WHY ASIA IS ON THE
FRONT LINES WHEN IT COMES TO
ENERGY SHOCK.
A LOT OF THESE COUNTRIES ARE
IMPORTERS AND HAVE TO HOARD
PRODUCTS AND THEIR IMPORTS COME
FROM THE MIDDLE EAST. WHICH IS
WHY YOU SEE WTI STILL TRADING
AT A DISTINCT DISTANCE FROM
BRENT.
IT IS BECAUSE WE ARE SOMEWHAT
IMMUNE TO WHAT IS GOING ON IN
THE MIDDLE EAST FROM A PRODUCT
SIDE. ASIA IS NOT. JONATHAN:
THIS IS WHAT THE DEPARTMENT OF
ENERGY HAS TO SAY, DOWNPLAYING
THE MARKET IMPACT OF THE WAR,
URGING ENERGY COMPANIES TO RAMP
UP PRODUCTION.
>> MARKETS DO WHAT PRICES DO
APPEAR IN PRICES WENT UP TO
SEND SIGNALS TO EVERYONE THAT
COULD PRODUCE MORE TO PLEASE
PRODUCE MORE.
PRICES HAVE NOT RISEN HIGH
ENOUGH YET TO DRIVE MEANINGFUL
DEMAND DESTRUCTION BUT
AMERICANS AND ENERGY
ENTREPRENEURS AROUND THE WORLD
ARE INGENIOUS SO THINGS ARE
BEING DONE BUT THESE ARE MADE
AGAINST JONATHAN:
A SITUATION THAT IS TEMPORARY.
SO IT IS HOLDING YOUR 00 A
BARREL AS UNCERTAINTY LINGERS.
VIKAS DWIVEDI WITH MACQUARIE
GROUP WRITING IF THE STRAIT OF
HORMUZ REMAINS SHUT BRENT COULD
STILL REACH 50 A BARREL.
HE JOINS US NOW FOR MORE.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
WHAT IS YOUR BASE CASE AT THE
MOMENT AND WHAT INFORMS THAT
BASE CASE? VIKAS:
OUR BASE CASE IS FOR BRENT TO
REVISIT THE 120 RANGE.
AS YOU MENTIONED, THERE IS A
BIG DISCONNECT BETWEEN THE
PHYSICAL AND FINANCIAL MARKETS.
WE THINK THAT DISCONNECT WILL
CLOSE IF THE STRAIT REMAINS
LARGELY SHUT, NOT COMPLETELY
SHUT.
WE THINK 120 DOLLARS, MAYBE
25 IS THE MOST LIKELY AREA
THAT PRICE WILL REVISIT WHAT
YOUR OTHER POINT IF THE STRAIT
REMAINS LARGELY SHUT THROUGH
APRIL, EVEN IF YOU GET A SINGLE
DAY RESOLUTION, LIKE WE ARE
DONE , YOU WILL NOT GET FLOWS
BACK TO NORMAL UNTIL MAY.
BY THEN, THE AMOUNT OF OIL THAT
DID NOT MAKE IT TO REFINERS AND
PETROCHEMICAL PLANTS WILL HAVE
BEEN SO LARGE THAT I THINK
SOMETHING THAT CLOSES IN ON
OMAN PRICING AND PHYSICAL
MARKETS YOU MENTIONED, WE THINK
THAT GAP WILL HAVE TO CLOSE.
ANNMARIE:
THAT IS THE BASE CASE IF IT
OPENS IN THE SHORT TERM.
WHAT HAPPENS IF IT DOES NOT
OPEN IN THE SHORT-TERM AND
COUNTRIES LIKE SAUDI ARABIA OR
THE UAE ALSO ENGAGE IN A MORE
MATERIAL WAY IN THE CONFLICT?
VIKAS:
IN THAT SCENARIO, THERE ARE
NUMEROUS MEDICATIONS THAT CAN
COME TO THE MARKET TO LIMIT OIL
FROM GOING TO 200 ON THE
FUTURES MARKET.
WE HAVE SEEN REFINED PRODUCTS
GO ABOUT THAT ALREADY, BUT
GLOBAL STRATEGIC PETROLEUM
RESERVE RELEASES COULD REACH
ABOUT 3 MILLION BARRELS A DAY.
THE EAST-WEST PIPELINE THAT
CROSSES ACROSS SAUDI ARABIA
COULD DO ANOTHER 3.5.
YOU HAVE A REFINING RUN CUTS,
WHICH WILL THEN TRANSLATE INTO
HIGHER REFINED PRODUCT PRICES
BUT ALLEVIATE CRUDE SHORTAGES
SO THERE IS A BUNCH OF BIG ONES
AND OPEC ALSO HAS ABOUT 200
MILLION OF STORAGE OUTSIDE THE
MIDDLE EAST THAT THEY CAN USE
SO IF EVERYTHING CAN COME TO
THE MARKET IN A TIMELY WAY
WITHOUT THE NORMAL BUREAUCRATIC
FRICTION, YOU CAN REBALANCE THE
MARKET LARGELY. NOT FULLY.
YOU ARE STILL CUTTING REFINING
PRODUCTS SO THAT IS A PETER TO
PAY PAUL SITUATION.
YOU CAN CLOSE THAT DEFICIT FROM
30 MILLION A DAY TO ABOUT 3
MILLION, MUCH MORE MANAGEABLE,
BUT YOU CANNOT DO THAT FOREVER.
EVEN THAT HAS A TIME LIMIT.
ANNMARIE:
THE EAST-WEST PIPELINE IS
LOOKING PRUDENT OF SAUDI ARABIA
TO INVEST IN BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS OF THIS TO BRING THEIR
CRUDE TO THE RED SEA BUT
INDIVIDUALS I'M TALKING ABOUT
ARE PUTTING HIGHER PROBABILITY
NOW THAT THE HOUTHIS
WILL GET INVOLVED IN CUT
THAT PRODUCTION OFF.
ARE YOU STARTING TO BAKE THAT
CONCERN IN? VIKAS: ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK THAT SHOULD BE A BIG
CONCERN.
THE PIPELINE ROUTE, ALL OF IT
IS AT RISK AND THEN YOUR POINT
THE HOUTHIS HAVE BEEN STRANGELY
QUIET. RED SEA ISSUES HAVE BEEN
STRANGELY QUIET.
WE DO NOT KNOW ANY REASON WHY
THOSE CANNOT FLARE BACK UP
AGAIN AND CAUSE A PROBLEM SO IF
YOU KNOCK THAT OUT IN ANY
MANNER, SUDDENLY ROUGHLY
6 MILLION, FIVE .5
MILLION A DAY OF THE MITIGATION
WILL BE GONE AND THAT IS A
DIFFERENT COMPLEXION TO THE
MARKET AGAIN. JONATHAN:
I THINK WE ARE ALL THANKFUL WE
ARE NOT THERE THIS MORNING AND
HOPEFULLY WE DO NOT EXPERIENCE
THAT IN THE COMING DAYS AND
WEEKS.
WE HAVE BEEN HEARING A LOT
ABOUT EVEN AFTER THIS WAR IS
RESOLVED, FROM HERE WE WILL
HAVE STRUCTURALLY HIGHER DEMAND
THROUGH STOCKPILING.
THAT COUNTRIES WILL BECOME
CONDITIONED TO AVOID THIS
SITUATION EVER HAPPENING TO
THEM AGAIN, PARTICULARLY
NATIONS IN ASIA LIKE WE HAVE
EXPERIENCE WITH CHINA AND WILL
SEE ELSEWHERE.
DO YOU SEE THAT INCREASE IN
STRUCTURAL DEMAND FOLLOWING THE
EXPERIENCE?
VIKAS: WE DO.
IF THIS DID NOT SEND THE
SIGNAL, NOTHING WOULD TO ANY
COUNTRY, SAYING WE NEED 90 DAYS
INSIDE OUR OWN BORDERS OR
WHATEVER DAY THEY PICK BUT 90
IS THE TYPICAL AND NOW CHINA
LOOKS EXTREMELY PRUDENT IN
DOING WHAT THEY DID.
THERE WERE THEORIES ABOUT ARE
THEY DOING IT FOR EVENTUAL
TAIWAN?
BUT WHAT THEY SAID IS WE HAVE
IMPORTED AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF
OIL AND WE HAVE A FRAGILE
SUPPLY CHAIN.
WE NEED THE EXTRA STORAGE AND
IT PRUDENT TODAY. JONATHAN:
WHAT KIND OF PREMIUM DOES THAT
INTRODUCE?
WHAT KIND OF NEW FLOOR DOES
THAT INTRODUCE FOR THE TIME
BEING?
VIKAS:
IT COULD ADD HALF A MILLION A
DAY OF EXTRA DEMAND AS
COUNTRIES REFILL AND ADD NEW
STORAGE.
YOU CAN TRANSLATE THAT TO
BETWEEN FIVE AND SEVEN DOLLARS
A BARREL TO WHAT YOUR PREVIOUS
BASE CASE MIGHT HAVE BEEN SO
THAT WILL MOVE US INTO THE MID
60'S INSTEAD OF THE HIGH 50'S
AND LOW 60'S. ANNMARIE:
DOES THAT MEAN FOR THE REST OF
THE WORLD BARRING THE UNITED
STATES? VIKAS: YES.
WE THINK THERE MIGHT BE
AGGREGATION AS WELL, OR
COUNTRIES DECIDE TO HAVE A
JOINT STORAGE BETWEEN
THEMSELVES SO THEY DO NOT
NECESSARILY ALL HAVE TO BUILD
NEW TANKS IN EVERY COUNTRY BUT
THERE IS COOPERATION.
THE U.S., WE ARE AT 420 MILLION.
WE ARE A NET EXPORTER OF
PETROLEUM SO TECHNICALLY WE DO
NOT NEED ANYTHING BUT THAT
NORMAL RULE OF THUMB -- IT
WOULD BE CRUDE.
WE PROBABLY SHOULD BE AROUND TO
THE 500 MILLION RANGE AT ALL
TIMES. JONATHAN:
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
IT IS GOOD TO SEE YOU, VIKAS
DWIVEDI OF MACQUARIE. CRUDE UP.
WTI AT AROUND 90.
YOUR THOUGHTS ON THE RED SEA
AND THE HOUTHIS GETTING
INVOLVED?
I DO NOT THINK PEOPLE WANT TO
ENVISION WHAT THAT MIGHT LOOK
LIKE. ANNMARIE:
WE WILL HAVE AN INDIVIDUAL WHO
I KNOW THINKS THAT THOSE
CHANCES HAVE INCREASED FURTHER.
IF THIS BECOMES MORE OF A
PROTRACTED, TIT-FOR-TAT
ESCALATION BETWEEN WASHINGTON
AND TEHRAN IN ISRAEL, YOU CAN
SEE THE IRANIAN REGIME, WHICH
IS IN AN EXISTENTIAL MOMENT
RIGHT NOW, TELLING THE HOUTHIS,
WHO THEY FUND -- THAT WOULD
CREATE A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
HEADACHES FOR OIL COMPANIES AND
SHIPPING COMPANIES. JONATHAN:
THAT IS THE LATEST ON THE
ENERGY MARKET.
LET'S GET YOU AN UPDATE ON
STORIES WORLDWIDE WITH YOUR
BLOOMBERG BRIEF. YAHAIRA:
SAUDI ARABIA AND THE UAE ARE
TAKING STEPS TOWARD JOINING THE
WAR. THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
REPORTING IT IS AGREED TO GIVE
THE U.S.
ACCESS TO AN AIRBASE AND THE
UAE HAS CLOSED A HOSPITAL AND A
CLUB OWNED BY IRAN.
THE JOURNAL ALSO REPORTING THAT
THOUSANDS OF U.S.
MARINES ARE SET TO ARRIVE IN
THE MIDDLE EAST FRIDAY.
TURKEY'S CENTRAL BANK IS
PREPARING NEW DEFENSES FOR THE
LIRA I'M IN WAR RELATED IN
VOLATILITY, WEIGHING TAPPING
INTO ITS GOLD RESERVE AND
DISCUSSING GOLD FOR CASH SWAPS
IN THE LONDON MARKET.
IT HAS BEEN ONE OF THE WORLD'S
MOST AGGRESSIVE GOLD BUYERS IN
THE PAST DECADE.
MORE PRIVATE CREDIT FEARS.
A PRIVATE CREDIT FUND
DOWNGRADED TO JUNK BY MOODY'S.
THE RATINGS AGENCY SAYS IT
DOWNGRADED THE CAPITAL FUND
BECAUSE OF WHAT HE DESCRIBED AS
CONTINUED ASSET QUALITY
CHALLENGES THAT HAVE HURT
PROFITABILITY AND VALUE OF THE
FUND PORTFOLIO RELATIVE TO
PEERS. JONATHAN:
NEXT, ATTEMPTING TO BALANCE
RISK.
>> TRADITIONALLY, THE POLICY A
LOOK FROM BEFORE IS UNCHANGED.
THE INFLATION RISK IS MORE
CONCERNING BUT UNEMPLOYMENT
RISKS, TOO.
IT GOT RISK ON BOTH SIDES.
JONATHAN:
WE WILL CATCH UP WITH GREG
PETERS OF PGIM.
THIS IS BLOOMBERG SURVEILLANCE.
♪
JONATHAN:
WE ARE COMING OFF THE BACK OF
THE BEST DAY OF MARCH SO FAR.
EQUITY FUTURES STALLING, JUST
ABOUT UNCHANGED ON THE S&P,
LIKEWISE ON THE NASDAQ AND THE
RUSSELL.
THAT IS A SNOOZE AND AFTER THE
LAST THREE WEEKS I IMAGINE THAT
IS WELCOME SNOOZE.
IN THE BOND MARKET, NEW HIGHS
FOR THE YEAR ON TWO'S, ON
TENANTS NORTH OF 4.40.
THIS MORNING 3.86 AND 4.37
RESPECTIVELY.
BRENT CRUDE 101.75.
WTI AROUND 90 AS THESE TALKS
PROGRESSED, I GUESS, GOING INTO
THE WEEKEND. ANNMARIE:
YOU ALMOST HAVE TO THINK IS
THIS THE CALM BEFORE THE STORM.
HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE COME ON
THE PROGRAM ON A CLEAR IF THE
PRESIDENT IS LOOKING FOR A
DIPLOMATIC OFFRAMP OR IF HE
JUST NEEDS THAT TIME BECAUSE
THEIR MARINES IN ROUTE TO THE
MIDDLE EAST. JONATHAN:
WE ARE ALL FAMILIAR WITH THE
CALENDAR AND THE POTENTIAL FOR
ESCALATION AND DE-ESCALATION.
ATTEMPTING TO BALANCE RISK.
>> TRADITIONALLY YOU LOOK AT AN
OIL PRICE SHOCK LIKE THIS MY
POLICY OUTLOOK IS UNCHANGED.
I HAD ABOUT SIX CUTS IN
DECEMBER, I REDUCED THAT TO
FOUR CUTS IN RESPONSE TO THE
INFLATION DATA.
THE INFLATION RISKS HAVE GOTTEN
MORE CONCERNING BUT THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RISKS HAVE GOT
MORE CONCERNING BECAUSE THE
NEGATIVE SUPPLY SHOCK IS ALSO
NEGATIVE DEMAND SHOCK.
THE BALANCE OF RISK CHANGED BUT
I THINK IT GOT WORST ON BOTH
SIDES. JONATHAN:
ENERGY SUPPLY SHOCKS REIGNITE
INFLATION FLOWS.
GREG PETERS WRITING "EVEN WITH
DE-ESCALATION SUPPLY CHANGES
AND UNCERTAINTY WILL PERSIST IN
THE SEQUENCING OF EVENTS AND
POLICY RESPONSE WILL MATTER
GREATLY."
GREG, WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
WE HAVE HAD THE SHOCK.
TO PLACE MORE EMPHASIS ON THE
HIT TO GROWTH OR THE FUEL FOR
INFLATION? GREG:
IT IS HARD TO SAY.
I LARGELY AGREED WITH STEPHEN
MIRAN, I THINK YOU HAVE TO LOOK
THROUGH IT.
THE MARKET REACTION AROUND THE
INFLATION POTENTIAL IS REALLY
NOTABLE.
IT HAS ALL BEEN MOVING HIGHER
OVER THE PAST COUPLE OF WEEKS
AND THAT IS REALLY THE STORY.
IN MY MIND I THINK THE MARKETS
ARE MAY BE FOCUSING A LITTLE
TOO MUCH ON THE INFLATION.
AT THE END OF THE DAY IT IS AN
OPEN QUESTION AND WE JUST DO
NOT KNOW. JONATHAN:
THE GOVERNOR HAS THE LUXURY OF
SAYING YOU CAN LOOK THROUGH
THIS.
IMAGINE OF THE CHAIRMAN CAME
OUT AND SAID WE NEED FOUR RATE
CUTS THIS YEAR AND YOU CAN LOOK
THROUGH THE INFLATION STOCK.
WHAT YOU THINK WOULD HAPPEN TO
INFLATION EXPECTATIONS? GREG:
EXACTLY RIGHT.
THEY WOULD MOVE QUITE HIGH.
HE DID SAY HE MOVED FROM SIX TO
FOUR SO MAYBE THERE IS SOME
RATIONALITY THERE.
THE INTERESTING ASPECT IS THE
REACTION FUNCTION.
THERE IS A LOT OF FOCUS ON
INFLATION.
THE GROWTH SIDE, SOME DEALERS
HAVE MOVED THEIR RECESSION ODDS
HIGHER, WHICH MAKES SENSE IN A
VACUUM.
THIS IS AN ADMINISTRATION THAT
WILL AGGRESSIVELY RESPOND.
YOU SEE ADDITIONAL STIMULUS,
YOU WILL SEE REFLEXIVE ACTION
OUT OF THE ADMINISTRATION TO DO
ANYTHING THEY CAN TO BOOST
GROWTH HEADING INTO THE
MIDTERMS. THAT IS AN IMPORTANT
POINT THAT IS LOST. JONATHAN:
THAT BEGS THE QUESTION, SHOULD
I BE SELLING BONDS OR BUYING
BONDS?
THE GROWTH STOCK IS ONE THING
FOR THE PROSPECT OF TRYING TO
SUPPORT GROWTH IS THE OTHER.
YOU BET ON THE OUTCOME THEY
WILL BE SUCCESSFUL AND SELL
FIXED INCOME? GREG:
I THINK IT IS PRETTY ATTRACTIVE
IN HERE ALL ELSE EQUAL.
FRONT ENDS HAVE MOVED TOO MUCH
SO I SEE SOME VALUE IN THE
FRONT END BUT I LOOK AT THE 10
YEAR YIELD AT 4.37 AND THAT IS
A PRETTY ATTRACTIVE LEVEL.
I SEE VALUE IN THE GLOBAL BOND
MARKET.
YOU SAW WHAT HAPPENED IN THE
GILT MARKET.
VERY VIOLENT MOVES HIGHER.
THAT SEEMED ATTRACTIVE TO ME.
THERE IS A LACK OF CLARITY BUT
YOU LOOK AT THE YIELD LEVELS
AND IT SEEMS PRETTY ATTRACTIVE
TO INVEST IN THE BOND MARKET.
ANNMARIE:
YOU MENTIONED MAY BE MARKET IS
UNDERESTIMATING -- IT IS A
MIDTERM ELECTION YEAR AND THEY
WANT TO MAKE SURE THE CONSUMER
IS AS INSULATED AS POSSIBLE.
WHAT DID THEY DO?
THE TOOLBOX LOOKS PRETTY DIRE
RIGHT NOW. GREG:
MORE FISCAL STIMULUS.
THEY HAVE TO FUND THE WAR.
THERE IS GOING TO BE A LOT MORE
THROWN INTO IT.
POTENTIALLY YOU WILL LOOK AT
OTHER DEREGULATION ASPECTS.
LET YOUR IMAGINATION RUN WILD.
JONATHAN:
I'M TRYING TO PUT TWO THINGS
TOGETHER.
DOES 4.37 ON 10 COMPENSATE FOR
THE RISK OF A GOVERNMENT
LEADING INTO MORE FISCAL
STIMULUS? GREG:
I STILL HAVE CONCERNS OVER THE
LONG END GLOBALLY.
DO I NECESSARILY WANT TO OWN 30
YEAR U.S. TREASURIES? I DON'T.
DO I WANT TO OWN 10 YEARS AND
IN? YES I DO.
FOR PRECISELY THAT REASON.
I THINK THE BACK ENDS WILL BE
EXPOSED DUE TO THE FISCAL, DUE
TO THE UNKNOWN ASPECT AT ALL.
AS YOU GET 10 YEAR AND IN, THE
CLOSER YOU GET TO THE CENTRAL
BANK POLICY RATE THE MORE
COMFORT I HAVE. JONATHAN:
AND WE HAVE CERTAINLY SEEN THAT
IN THE STATES, PARTICULARLY THE
FRONT END OF THE CURVE ABOVE
FED FUND RATES.
DOES THE SAME APPLIED TO THE
U.K.
MARKET OR OTHER MARKETS ACROSS
EUROPE?
AUSTRALIA THAT HAS BEEN HIKING
RATES IN RESPONSE TO INFLATION
PRESSURE BEFORE WE SAW THE
ENERGY HIT.
DOES IT APPLY TO THOSE MARKETS?
GREG: I THINK IT DOES.
THIS IS A GLOBAL PHENOMENON.
WHAT YOU WITNESSED LAST YEAR
WAS BROAD REPRICING OF RISK
PREMIUM AND TERM PREMIUM AND
THE U.S.
BEHAVE BETTER THAN OTHER
MARKETS.
YOU COULD SUBMIT THEIR IS
BETTER VALUE OUTSIDE THE U.S.
IN THE LONG END PART OF THE
CURVE BUT I STILL THINK THE
RULE APPLIES.
YOU WANT TO BE IN THE BELLY AND
IN GLOBALLY.
THE GLOBAL BOND MARKET IS THE
MOST ATTRACTIVE IT HAS BEEN IN
A LONG TIME.
YOU ARE SEEING NOT ONLY YIELDS
QUITE HIGH, BUT CORRELATIONS
ARE MUCH LIGHTER, AND I THINK
THAT MATTERS A LOT. JONATHAN:
GREG PETERS THERE OF PGIM FIXED
INCOME WEIGHING IN ON SOME OF
THE MOVES.
VALUE CREATION, HOW MANY TIMES
HAVE WE HEARD THAT?
IN FIXED INCOME WE'VE CREATED
VALUE BECAUSE YIELDS HAVE
BACKED UP SO MUCH. ANNMARIE:
WHAT WE HAVE SEEN IN THE YIELD
SPACES WHAT YOU'VE TALKED ABOUT.
WHAT WE SEE IN DAYS OR WEEKS IS
NORMALLY WHAT WE SEE IN A 12
MONTH TRADING RANGE.
WHAT HE IS TALKING ABOUT IN
TERMS OF WHAT THIS
ADMINISTRATION MIGHT DO IN
TERMS OF FISCAL POLICY, TO
SPEND MORE YOU HAVE TO GO
THROUGH CONGRESS.
CONGRESS CANNOT GET TSA BACK UP
AND RUNNING SO I'M NOT SURE
THAT WILL BE THE SILVER BULLET
SOME INVESTORS ARE HOPING FOR.
JONATHAN:
COMING UP, EMILY ROLAND OF JOHN
HANCOCK WILL JOIN US.
ABIGAIL WATT.
AND THE CISCO PRESIDENT.
THIS MARKET WAS BREAKING DOWN
YESTERDAY MORNING AND THEN
TURNED AROUND BIG TIME AS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
REMOVED NEAR-TERM ESCALATION
RISK AND PUT ON THE TABLE FIVE
DAYS OF TALKS INTO THE WEEKEND.
EQUITY FUTURES -.25% ON THE
S&P, A SIMILAR MOVE ON THE
NASDAQ. YIELD SLIGHTLY HIGHER.
TWO'S AT 3.89.
BRENT HOLDING ONTO TRIPLE
DIGITS. $102.50 ON BRENT CRUDE.
♪
>> WE ARE REALLY SEEING IN REAL
TIME JUST HOW MUCH OF THIS WAR
IS IMPACTING NOT JUST STOCK
MARKETS, BOND MARKETS, AND
ENERGY MARKETS AS WELL.
>> WE ARE AT A POINT RIGHT NOW
OR IT IS ON ONE BIG TRADE.
>> YOU HAVE TO LOOK PAST THE
DAILY NEWS AND HEADLINES.
>> WE DON'T KNOW WHAT A
RESOLUTION LOOKS LIKE AT THIS
POINT.
>> NOT LIKE THIS IS A
FLIP OF A SWITCH.
>> THIS IS "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE." JONATHAN:
A MARKET AT THE MERCY OF THE
NEXT HEADLINE.
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY THIS
MORNING, GOOD MORNING, GOOD
MORNING.
THE THIRD HOUR OF "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE"
STARTS RIGHT NOW, AND YOUR
SCORES LOOK LIKE THIS.
FUTURES PULLING BACK BY 0.1% ON
THE S&P 500.
LIKEWISE ON THE NASDAQ AND
RUSSELL.
TWOS YESTERDAY NORTH OF 4%.
10S NORTH OF 4.40%.
IN THE COMMODITY MARKET, WILD
SWINGS, AND I MEANWHILE SWINGS.
TRIPLE DIGITS AT ONE POINT IN
THE LAST 24 HOURS.
RIGHT NOW, $91 ON WTI CRUDE.
ANNMARIE:
THIS TIME YESTERDAY, THEY WERE
DOWN 10% BASED OFF THE
PRESIDENT'S TRUTH SOCIAL POST
DE-ESCALATING FROM WHAT HE HAD
THREATENED AS A DEADLINE THAT
EVENING WHERE HE WOULD GO IN
AND POTENTIALLY GO AFTER
IRANIAN POWER PLANTS.
THEN I THINK A LOT OF
INDIVIDUALS WENT TO THE
PRESIDENT WITHIN THE REGION AND
CORPORATE AMERICA, SAYING THIS
IS WHAT A TIT-FOR-TAT
ESCALATION WOULD ACTUALLY LOOK
LIKE.
NOW WE HAVE A NEW DEADLINE.
THIS ENTIRE WEEK WE HAVE BEEN
WORKING THROUGH WHAT HAPPENS ON
FRIDAY.
IF DIPLOMATIC TALKS DO NOT
PREVAIL. JONATHAN:
WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN?
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW ESCALATION IS
ON THE TABLE.
WE HAVE DELETED IT BY SEVERAL
DAYS BUT IT IS STILL ON THE
ANNMARIE:
THAT IS WHY A LOT OF PEOPLE
THINK THE PRESIDENT WAS BUYING
TIME BECAUSE WE HAVE MARINES
HEADED TO THE REGION AND
POTENTIALLY IS BUYING SOME TIME
TO MAKE THE NEXT MOVE.
AT THE SAME TIME, THIS IS
GETTING A LOT OF ATTENTION.
THIS REPORTING FROM THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL THAT GULF ALLIES
LIKE THE UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
AND SAUDI ERBIUM MAY
POTENTIALLY TAKE A MORE
MATERIAL IMPACT WHEN IT COMES
TO THIS MORE.
SAUDI ARABIA MAY JOIN THOSE
ATTACKS.
OUR REPORTING IS THE WOULD JOIN
IF THEIR OWN DESALINATION AND
POWER PLANTS WERE HIT. JONATHAN:
WE HAVE BEEN ABSOLUTELY
WHIPSAWED ACROSS ASSETS THE
LAST 24 HOURS.
S&P 500 FUTURES DOWN MORE THAN
1% AT THE LOWS, UP BY ALMOST 3%
AT THE HIGHS. I MENTIONED WTI.
$84 AT THE LOWS.
THE TWO YEAR YIELD, A 22 POINT
CHANGE. NOT 24 HOURS.
MORE LIKE 12 HOURS IN THE FIXED
INCOME MARKET.
ABSOLUTELY AMAZING. ANNMARIE:
THAT IS WHY MANY PEOPLE SAY THE
PRESIDENT STEPPED IN, BECAUSE
HE HAD A PRESSURE POINT.
REMEMBER HIS PRESSURE POINT ON
LIBERATION DAY TO THE BOND
MARKET WAS GETTING YIPPY.
AND THEN OF COURSE THE
FOLLOW-ON CONVERSATION AS THERE
HAS BEEN A LOT OF SPECULATION
THAT THIS ADMINISTRATION WAS A
LITTLE LEAKY WITH CERTAIN
INDIVIDUALS.
THIS IS WHAT ALLEGATIONS ARE.
VERY CONTROVERSIAL.
BECAUSE THERE IS REPORTING.
WE HAVE REPORTING, WALL STREET
JOURNAL, ACTUALLY WHAT TOOK
PLACE.
NOT SAYING WHAT WAS DIFFERENT
IF BUT WHAT TOOK PLACE TERMS OF
TRADES, 15, 10 MINUTES BEFORE
THE PRESIDENT'S TRUTH. JONATHAN:
WE ARE HANGING OUR HOPES ON
TALKS THAT IRAN IS DENYING IS
EVEN HAPPENING RIGHT NOW.
EQUITY FUTURES JUST ABOUT
UNCHANGED ON THE S&P 500.
COMING UP THIS HOUR, WE WILL
CHECK UP WITH EMILY WITH STOCKS
LOOKING TO BUILD ON MOMENTUM.
SCOTT ON THE TENSION IN
PHYSICAL ENERGY MARKETS.
AND JEETU DISCUSSING AI
SECURITY.
FOLLOWING A WILD 24 HOURS,
EMILY OF JOHN HANCOCK
INVESTMENTS WRITING THE
FOLLOWING, WE ARE TRYING TO
MINIMIZE GEOPOLITICS AS AN
ASSET ALLOCATION INPUT,
ESPECIALLY NOW WITH TALKS
MOVING MARKETS SO SIGNIFICANTLY.
ONE THING WE ARE SURE OF IS
THAT SENTIMENT CAN CHANGE ON A
DIME.
EMILY JOINS US NOW FOR MORE.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
HOW AVOIDABLE IS SOME OF THAT
AT THE MOMENT? EMILY:
IT IS SO TRICKY RIGHT NOW.
MY HEART SANK WHEN I SAW I WAS
GOING TO BE ON THE SHOW THIS
MORNING. ONLY KIDDING, BUT IT IS
DIFFICULT TO DETERMINE WHAT
WILL HAPPEN NEXT IN THIS MARKET.
YESTERDAY WE WERE WATCHING
MIXED MESSAGES ACROSS ASSET
CLASSES.
YOU HAVE THE DOLLAR DECLINING,
RISK ASSETS SURGING.
IT IS BACK TO THE MOMENTUM
DARLINGS OF THE PAST 12 MONTHS
OR SO. EUROPEAN BANKS.
MEANWHILE, BONDS ARE TELLING
YOU A DIFFERENT STORY THAT THE
WAR IS STILL GOING TO BE
ONGOING WITH YIELDS REMAINING
ELEVATED HERE.
SO WE ARE TRYING TO CONTROL THE
THINGS WE CAN CONTROL IN THIS
ENVIRONMENT. WE ARE LOOKING FOR
OPPORTUNITIES AND AREAS THAT
HAVE GREAT EARNINGS GROWTH
PROSPECTS.
WE ARE LOOKING FOR INCOME.
WE ARE TRYING TO FIND THINGS ON
SALE, LOOKING FOR DIVERSIFIERS
IN PORTFOLIOS IN A WORLD WHERE
THE MACRO ENVIRONMENT REMAINS
DAZED AND CONFUSED. JONATHAN:
I KNOW YOU LIKE THE BOND MARKET
COMING INTO THIS.
YOU LIKE IT MORE NOW? EMILY:
WE DO.
WE LOOK AT OPPORTUNITIES WHERE
YIELDS ARE BACKING UP AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO LEAN IN.
OBVIOUSLY, THE MYOPIC FOCUS
HERE IS ON ENERGY PRICES AND
THE POTENTIAL IMPACT TO
INFLATION, BUT WE ARE FOCUSING
ON THE OLD ADAGE, THE CURE FOR
HIGHER OIL PRICES IS HIGHER OIL
PRICES.
WHAT I MEAN BY THAT IS IT WILL
LIKELY LEAD TO DEMAND
DESTRUCTION.
WE ARE HEARING FROM ASIAN
ECONOMIES THAT THERE IS
HOARDING OF OIL RESOURCES.
PEOPLE ARE BEING TOLD NOT TO GO
TO WORK.
WE ARE SEEING AN IMPACT IN
AIRLINE PRICES.
I WAS HOPING FOR A VACATION
COMING UP AT THOSE PRICES ARE
NOT LOOKING GOOD.
AT SOME POINT, PEOPLE WILL TURN
BACK. THE OTHER ELEMENT WE ARE
WATCHING IS THE BIGGER
COMPONENTS OF INFLATION WHICH
WE THINK ARE SIGNIFICANT,
ESPECIALLY AROUND SHELTER OR
HOUSING.
ZILLOW HAS HOME PRICES UP 0%
YEAR-OVER-YEAR, RENTAL PRICES
UP 1.5% YEAR-OVER-YEAR.
IT COULD BE ENOUGH TO OVERCOME
ANY POTENTIAL INFLATIONARY
IMPACT WE SEE FROM COMMODITY
PRICES.
FOR THAT REASON, WE THINK
EVENTUALLY BONDS OR BOND
INVESTORS WILL WAKE UP AND
SMELL THAT DISINFLATION COMING,
BUT FOR NOW WE ARE JUST
CONTINUING TO SEE MORE
VOLATILITY ON THE RIGHT SIDE.
JONATHAN:
EVERYTHING YOU JUST SAID WAS AN
ARGUMENT FOR THE LOVE OF GROWTH.
IT WAS AN ARGUMENT REFINE IT IN
YOUR CALL TO BY THE BOND MARKET.
THIS IS WHERE THE STOCK MARKET
STARTS TO GET INTERESTING.
WILL KEEP EARNINGS INSULATED AS
YOU PUT A BIG BET ON LOWER
GROWTH? EMILY:
WE ARE NOT SAYING GROWTH IS
FALLING OFF A CLIFF BUT WE ARE
SEEING IT IN PLACES LIKE THE
LABOR MARKET. IT IS NOT GREAT.
WE HAVE SIX NEGATIVE JOB
REPORTS.
THE LABOR MARKET IS HOLDING AS
IT RELATES TO THINGS LIKE
INITIAL CLAIMS. IT IS NOT
TERRIBLE BUT JUST DIFFICULT TO
SEEM ACCELERATING ECONOMIC
GROWTH WITH A JOBLESS BACKDROP,
SO WE WANT TO BE REALLY MINDFUL
OF THAT.
IT IS A KEY REASON WE STILL
LIKE QUALITY.
QUALITY SECTORS, QUALITY STOCKS
SHOULD HOLD UP BETTER.
THINGS LIKE LOOKING AT RETURN
ON EQUITY, LOOKING AT CASH
BALANCES, FREE CASH FLOW,
COMPANIES THAT CAN REALLY
MAINTAIN THEIR EARNINGS GROWTH
PROSPECT EVEN DESPITE SLOWING
GROWTH.
THAT IS NOT WHAT WE ARE SEEING
GET REWARDED IN THIS MARKET.
IT HAS BEEN ABOUT LOWER
QUALITY, TECHNICALS, MOMENTUM,
SENTIMENT DRIVING THE RISKIER
PART OF THE MARKET.
WE WANT TO TRIM INTO THAT
STRENGTH AND THINK ABOUT
REDEPLOYING ASSETS INTO MORE
DEFENSIVE PART OF THE MARKET
AND HIGHER-QUALITY AREAS.
WE ARE LOOKING AT AREAS LIKE
INFRASTRUCTURE RELATED
EQUITIES, UTILITIES, EVEN
ALTERNATIVE TYPE STRATEGIES
THAT CAN DO WELL IN THAT
SLOWING GROWTH ENVIRONMENT.
ANNMARIE:
WHEN YOU MENTION THE FACT THAT
WHEN IT COMES TO THE ENERGY
MARKET THE CURE IS GOING TO BE
POTENTIALLY DEMAND DESTRUCTION,
DO YOU HAVE PRICES IN MIND
ABOUT HOW HIGH PRICES HAVE TO
GO UNTIL WE SEE THE DEMAND
DESTRUCTION? EMILY:
THAT IS THE QUESTION OF THE DAY.
I LOOK BACK IN HISTORY AT 2008
AND 2022, THE LAST TIMES WE SAW
SIGNIFICANT SPIKES IN OIL
PRICES.
IT IS AROUND 120 DOLLARS A
BARREL THAT WE SEE THE DEMAND
DESTRUCTION SET IN.
WE ARE NOT THERE YET, BUT
CERTAINLY THE WAR AS COMMITTING
POTENTIALLY BRING US THERE.
THAT IS THE GENERAL PRICE POINT
WE WOULD BE LOOKING AT.
JONATHAN:
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME IS ALWAYS.
EMILY ROLET OF JOHN HANCOCK
INVESTMENTS ON THE OUTLOOK FOR
THE ECONOMY FOR THE BOND
MARKET, FOR STOCKS, CLEARLY A
BET ON LOWER GROWTH.
IT IS THE QUESTION ABOUT
EARNINGS HERE WITH A LOW GROWTH
STORY BACKUP BEHIND US.
HOW ARE WE FORECASTING A BETTER
EARNINGS STORY 12 MONTHS OUT IF
YOU HAVE PEOPLE BETTING THAT
HIGHER ENERGY PRICES, TIGHTER
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS LEAD TO
LOWER GROWTH? ANNMARIE:
THAT IS EXACTLY RIGHT.
HOW ARE YOU AS AN EXECUTIVE
SEEKING POTENTIALLY YOU WILL BE
ABLE TO HIT WHEN IT COMES TO
ALL OF YOUR METRICS RUNNING A
COMPANY? THIS IS AN INCREDIBLE
CHALLENGING TIME.
A LOT OF THESE COMPANIES HAVE
TO START TAKING INTO ACCOUNT
HIGHER ENERGY PRICES BECAUSE IT
IS NOT JUST WTI AND BRENT BUT
THE PRODUCT PRICES STARTING TO
HIT.
WE HEARD FROM DAN FROM GOLDMAN
SACHS THE FACT THAT DIESEL IS
ALREADY FIVE DOLLARS, ABOUT
FIVE DOLLARS A GALLON IN MOST
PLACES.
THAT IS A MAJOR INPUT COST FOR
A NUMBER OF COMPANIES. JONATHAN:
THIS IS THE PUSHBACK YOU GET
FROM THE BULLS, BY THE WAY.
ONE PUSHBACK WE REPEATEDLY PACE
IS EVEN A SWIFT RESOLUTION TO
THE MIDDLE EAST CONFLICT WOULD
NOT BRING US BACK TO NORMALITY
QUICKLY IN TERMS OF OIL AND GAS
SUPPLY.
THAT MAY BE TRUE BUT THIS WAS
THE CASE DURING THE COVID-19
PANDEMIC IN 2020 AND LAST YEAR
AROUND THE RATION DAY, SO
BASICALLY THE ARGUMENT YOU ARE
GETTING RIGHT NOW FROM THE LIKE
OF THE EQUITY BULLS IS WE HAVE
SEEN THIS BEFORE AND COULD LOOK
OUT TO A BETTER STORY 12 MONTHS
OUT AND CAN DO THAT AGAIN.
ANNMARIE:
YEAH, BUT THIS IS CHALLENGING.
NEIL DUTTA WAS THE ONE THAT
SAID YOU NEED TWO TO TACO.
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS ONE
INDIVIDUAL WITH THIS PARTY.
HE CANNOT JUST TURN IT OFF AND
ON LIKE A LIGHT SWITCH AND SAY
WE WANT TO GET BACK TO NORMAL
LIKE USUAL.
THERE IS A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT
PLAYERS INVOLVED IN THIS
CONFLICT AND POTENTIALLY THEY
WILL BE THE ONES THAT PROLONG
THIS. JONATHAN:
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE CALENDAR.
SECRETARY RUBIO WITH AN
INTERESTING ONE.
HE WILL TRAVEL TO FRANCE ON
MARCH 27, WHICH I BELIEVE IS
THIS COMING FRIDAY, AND MEETING
WITH G7 FOREIGN AFFAIRS
MINISTERS.
THE PRESIDENT HAS SET A
DEADLINE FOR TALKS WITH IRAN
BEFORE ESCALATING THINGS FROM
HERE. ANNMARIE:
THAT IS VERY INTERESTING
ESPECIALLY GIVEN THE FACT THAT
WE HAVE NOT HEARD MUCH FROM
SECRETARY RUBIO.
SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN
STRIKING TO ME AS WE HEARD FROM
THE ENERGY SECRETARY QUITE A
LOT.
HE IS STILL GOING TO EVENTS.
WE HEARD FROM THE TREASURY
SECRETARY QUITE A LOT WHEN IT
COMES TO THIS WAR.
NOT JUST THINGS LIKE SANCTIONS
AND UNSANCTIONED IRANIAN FUEL
AND PRODUCT THAT IS NOW AT SEA.
ALSO THINGS LIKE MAYBE
POTENTIALLY BECOMING A U.S.
ASSET. HAVE NOT HEARD A LOT FROM
SECRETARY RUBIO. JONATHAN:
FUTURES THIS MORNING DOWN ON
THE S&P.
YAHAIRA:
DAY 25 OF THE IRAN WAR AND
ATTACKS ARE CONTINUING ON BOTH
SIDES EVEN AFTER PRESIDENT
TRUMP SAID HE IS HOLDING OFF ON
GOING AFTER IRAN'S ENERGY
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR FIVE DAYS.
TRUMP SAYING STEVE WITKOFF AND
JARED KUSHNER SPOKE WITH A TOP
PERSON IN IRAN ON SUNDAY BUT
THAT IT IS NOT THE NEW SUPREME
LEADER.
IRANIAN OFFICIALS SAY THEY ARE
WILLING DISCUSSIONS WITH THE
U.S.
FEDEX ANNOUNCING A PARTNERSHIP
WITH A DELIVERY PLATFORM TO
OFFER SAME-DAY SHIPPING.
THE CAREER WILL UTILIZE THEIR
NATIONAL NETWORK TO GET DRIVERS
TO MAKE DELIVERIES FROM RETAIL
STORES AND FULFILLMENT CENTERS
TO CUSTOMERS.
THE ROLLOUT OF THE SERVICE WILL
BEGIN OVER THE NEXT FEW MONTHS.
DENMARK IS HOLDING A GENERAL
ELECTION TODAY WITH THE PRIME
MINISTER'S RULING PARTY.
THE ELECTION IS SET TO BE
SHAPED BY PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
THREATS OVER GREENLAND.
THE HANDLING OF THE DIPLOMATIC
CRISIS HAS BOOSTED HER IMAGE.
DENMARK'S SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS
HAVE RISEN TO THE TOP OF VOTE
OR CONCERNS.
IT IS YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
WHAT A YEAR ALREADY FOR FOREIGN
POLICY.
IT IS WORTH REPEATING THE FIRST
QUARTER IS STILL NOT OVER.
THE LONGEST FIRST QUARTER EVER
CONTINUES. WE HAVE MADURO.
NOW WE HAVE THIS.
GREENLAND FEELS LIKE A LIFETIME
AGO. ANNMARIE:
DAVOS FEELS LIKE A LIFETIME AGO.
JONATHAN: THE TENSION WITH THAT.
ANNMARIE:
WE WERE IN A DIFFERENT PLACE
AND MADURO FEELS LIKE A DECADE
AGO AND THAT WAS THE VERY START
OF THE YEAR. JONATHAN:
21 STILL GOING.
UP NEXT, THE MORNING CALLS AND
SCOTT MODELL ON THE TENSION IN
ENERGY MARKETS. THAT IS NEXT.
THIS IS BLOOMBERG.
♪
>> THIS VIEW OF RISKS IS VERY
MUCH TOWARDS DELAYS AND
THEREFORE HIGHER PRICES.
WE HAVE TWO RISK SCENARIOS
BEYOND THE BASE CASE.
YOU END THE YEAR AT 100 FOR
BRENT.
AT THE CIVILIAN FIRST SCENARIO
YOU HAVE IT AROUND 115.
JONATHAN:
GOLDMAN SACHS WITH A NEW
OUTLOOK FOR CRUDE.
RED AVERAGE 85 FOR THE YEAR.
86 IN LINE WITH THE TEAM OVER
AT GOLDMAN.
FOR THE SECOND QUARTER, AN
AVERAGE OF 00 IS NOW THE
FORECAST. THAT IS A MASSIVE
INCREASE COMPARED TO WHERE WE
WERE HEADING INTO THIS WAR.
LISA:
WHAT IS THIS GOING TO BE BAKED
INTO CORPORATE AMERICA,
EQUITIES, THE FACT THAT IT WILL
BE HIGHER FOR LONGER WHEN IT
COMES TO ENERGY COSTS AND WHEN
IT WILL BE BAKED INTO THE
MINDSET OF CONSUMERS.
WE ARE BASICALLY AT FOUR
DOLLARS PER GALLON TODAY.
WHERE WILL WE BE AT PEAK
DRIVING SEASON IN AMERICA THIS
SUMMER? JONATHAN:
S&P 500 NEGATIVE BY ONE THIRD
OF A PERCENT.
ON THE RUSSELL WE ARE DOWN BY
0.4.
IF YOU TURN TO THE BOND MARKET
LET'S LOOK AT WHAT IS HAPPENING
IN FIXED INCOME.
ON THE 10 YEAR, 4.36 OFF THE
HIGHS OF YESTERDAY.
A BIG TURNAROUND.
FINALLY ON CRUDE, WTI, BRENT
LOOKS A LITTLE SOMETHING LIKE
THIS. WTI AT 91.60.
LISA:
MASSIVE DIFFERENCE FROM WHAT WE
WERE THIS TIME EXACTLY
YESTERDAY WHEN BRENT, WTI WERE
DOWN DOUBLE DIGITS IN TERMS OF
PERCENTAGES.
WE WENT INTO YESTERDAY WITH
THIS ULTIMATUM FOR THE WHITE
THAT TEHRAN HAD 48 HOURS.
NOW THERE IS A NEW DEADLINE.
THAT IS GOING TO BE FRIDAY.
IS THIS A REAL DIPLOMATIC
OVERTURE?
WITH INDIVIDUALS IN THE MIDDLE
LIKE PAKISTAN OR TURKEY TRYING
TO MEDIATE OR IS THE PRESIDENT
BUYING MORE TIME? JONATHAN:
TRUEST INITIATING COVERAGE OF
DIAMONDBACK ENERGY.
OUTSIZED RETURNS DUE TO THE
GEOPOLITICAL BACKDROP.
BANK OF AMERICA REINSTATING
COVERAGE OF MICROSOFT.
GROWTH ACROSS ARTIFICIAL
INTELLIGENCE.
ISSUES ARE PILING UP IN PRIVATE
CREDIT.
POTENTIALLY GETTING ANOTHER ONE.
LIMITING WITHDRAWS FROM ONE OF
ITS MARQUEE PRIVATE CREDIT
FUNDS .
REDEMPTION SURGE TO 11.6% IN
THE FIRST QUARTER.
THIS IS DIRECTLY FROM THE 620
$3 BILLION INVESTMENT GROUP
SAYING ITS CAP INVESTMENTS ARE
AT 5%. LISA:
WE HAVE A STATEMENT IN THIS
LETTER REPORTING THEY ARE
SAYING WE HAVE MADE THE
DECISION AS WITH ALL CAPITAL
ALLOCATION DECISIONS ALIGNED
WITH WHAT WE BELIEVE ARE THE
BEST INTEREST OF THE FUND AND
ALL OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS WHO
REMAIN INVESTED.
THEY RECEIVED .2 BILLION
REDEMPTION REQUEST THE FIRST
THREE MONTHS.
FULFILLED JUST OVER $500
MILLION OF THEM. JONATHAN:
THAT STOCK IS DOWN IN THE
PREMARKET.
BEAT UP BIG TIME OVER THE LAST
12 MONTHS.
BRENT CRUDE HOLDING ON TO
TRIPLE DIGITS FOLLOWING
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S DECISION TO
PAUSE STRIKES.
THE CEO OF RAPSODO ENERGY GROUP
SAYING THIS BY'S DAYS, MAYBE A
FEW WEEKS.
THE PHYSICAL MARKET WILL
RESPOND TO SHIPS, STORAGE
LEVELS, REFINERY RUN CUTS.
APRIL IS WHEN THE WORDS RUN OUT.
THANKS FOR GIVING US SOME TIME.
THIS IS A REALLY IMPORTANT
TOPIC.
YOU COULD PUSH AROUND THE PAPER
MARKET ALL YOU LIKE, THE
PHYSICAL MARKET IS ALREADY
SCREAMING.
WHAT DO YOU SEE RIGHT NOW?
SCOTT:
GOOD MORNING, THANKS FOR HAVING
ME.
WAR ON THE ESCALATORY PATTERN
AND TRADE FLOW SIGNALS ARE
MOVING UP.
YOU ARE STARTING TO SEE THE
MARKET MOVED TO A PLACE WHERE
THE ATLANTIC BASE AND IMPORTERS
WILL HAVE TO COMPETE FOR THE
SAME BARRELS AND THERE IS NO
CHOICE BUT PRICES WILL HAVE TO
MOVE.
I THINK APRIL IS THE INFLECTION
POINT.
WE WILL STOP SEEING ARRIVALS
CURRENTLY ON THE WATER AND
THERE ARE NO NEW SHIPS COMING
IN BEHIND.
THAT'S WHEN PHYSICAL SHORTAGES
START TO SHOW UP.
VERBAL INTERVENTION BUYS DAYS,
MAYBE ANOTHER WEEK OR SO.
THE PHYSICAL MARKET WILL
RESPOND TO SHIPS, WE FINALLY
RUN CUTS.
APRIL IS WHEN THEY START TO RUN
OUT. ANNMARIE:
WHEN YOU SAY THAT'S WHEN THE
WORDS RUN OUT, HOW MUCH HIGHER
ARE YOU LOOKING AT WHEN IT
COMES TO BRENT AND WTI?
SCOTT:
IF WE FIND OURSELVES TWO WEEKS
FROM NOW IN THE SAME SITUATION,
VERBAL INTERVENTION STARTS TO
FADE AWAY, THE IRANIANS AND IN
THE U.S.
AND ISRAEL ARE TRADING BLOWS
AND SHIPS ARE NOT GETTING
THROUGH, I DON'T SEE WHY WE
DON'T HEAD INTO THE HIGH TRIPLE
DIGITS.
THIS IS ALL GOING TO CHANGE,
REALITY WILL SET IN AND THERE'S
NO REASON WHY WE COULDN'T SEE
150 OR HIGHER. LISA:
I KNOW YOU WORKED AT THE
AGENCY, WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF THE
NEGOTIATIONS GOING ON RIGHT NOW?
HOW ARE YOU READING THE
NEGOTIATIONS POTENTIALLY
THROUGH PAKISTAN, TURKEY
BETWEEN TEHRAN AND WASHINGTON?
SCOTT:
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANYTHING
GOING ON RIGHT NOW.
PROBABLY SOME LINES IN THE
WATER THROUGH THE USUAL
SUSPECTS.
THEY HAVE BEEN ACTIVELY
INVOLVED.
THERE IS A FRENETIC PUSH TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO BRING THEM
TOGETHER TO STOP THE FIGHTING.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS IT HASN'T
HAD MUCH PROGRESS.
THE CIA AMONG OTHER THINGS THEY
TRIED TO COLLECT ON WITH
EVERYTHING FROM DRONES AND
EVERYTHING THAT USED TO DISRUPT
THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ.
WHAT IS THE NEGOTIATION
POSITION?
WILL THEY COME TO THE TABLE AND
WHAT WILL THE DEMANDS BE?
THE PUBLIC DEMANDS HAVE BEEN
ASKING FOR REPARATIONS AND SO
FORTH.
THERE IS A REALISTIC OFFRAMP
BUT WE DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS
YET. ANNMARIE:
WHY DO YOU THINK THE MARKET
REACTED THE WAY IT DID TO THE
PRESIDENT'S SOCIAL POST
YESTERDAY? SCOTT:
MOST OF THE QUESTIONS WE GET
FROM THE MARKET, IT SURPRISES
US ALL THE TIME.
IT REALLY SURPRISES US.
PEOPLE STILL SEEM TO BELIEVE
THERE IS GOING TO BE AN
OFFERING.
PEOPLE BELIEVE IT ISN'T GOING
TO LAST VERY LONG.
THE SINGLE MOST FREQUENT
QUESTION WE GET IS SURELY THIS
IS ABOUT TO END.
WE ARE ABOUT TO FIND THE
OFFRAMP AND PEOPLE USE THIS.
THERE IS GOING TO BE TRUMP
FINDING AN EXCUSE, CALL IT A
WIN BECAUSE HE CAN'T FACE
HIGHER INFLATION, HIGH PUBLIC
PRICES. STOCK MARKET PROBLEMS.
EVERYTHING.
THIS IS GOING TO END.
WE KEEP SAYING THIS IS JUST NOT
GOING TO HAPPEN.
I THINK THESE QUICK REACTIONS
TO TRUMP'S TWEETS ARE GOING TO
START SLOWING DOWN. ANNMARIE:
I KNOW YOU THINK THIS COULD
ESCALATE IN THE RED SEA, WHAT
KIND OF PROBABILITY DO YOU PUT
ON THE WHO THESE GETTING
INVOLVED? SCOTT:
IN THE PAST WE HAVE MADE THE
MISTAKE OF UNDERESTIMATING
THEM. TRUMP HAD TO
TO HIS CAP AFTER 52 DAYS OF
MILITARY STRIKES.
THE RED SEA ISN'T FULLY BACK TO
NORMAL.
THE COOTIES AREN'T EVEN THE
HOUTHIS COULD ACT UP ANYTIME.
COMPANIES ARE CHOOSING TO AVOID.
I'M ABOUT 60%-70% THAT OF WE
ARE INTO APRIL AND THIS IS
STILL GOING ON, YOU WILL SEE
THE HOUTHIS ENTER THIS CONFLICT.
THAT IS EVERYTHING FROM
RESUMING ACTIVITY IN THE RED
SEA TO HITTING SAUDI OIL
INFRASTRUCTURE. JONATHAN:
IT IS GOOD TO SEE YOU.
A LOT TO BE CONCERNED ABOUT.
ON THE RISKS THIS ENERGY MARKET
STILL FACES. ANNMARIE:
APRIL STARTS NEXT WEEK.
WE ARE GOING INTO A WEEKEND
WHERE A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
STARTING TO TAKE STOCK ON
POTENTIALLY DIPLOMATIC
NEGOTIATIONS NOT HAPPENING IN
THE PRESIDENT IS BUYING TIME.
JONATHAN:
UP NEXT ON THE PROGRAM ABIGAIL
WATT FROM UBIS.
PRIVATE CREDIT CONCERNS GROW
DEEPER.
DOWN BY 3% IN THE PREMARKET.
JONATHAN:
THE OPENING BELL 60 MINUTES
AWAY.
EQUITIES DECLINING BY A QUARTER
OF 1% ON THE NASDAQ, DOWN BY
0.2% ON THE RUSSELL.
DANI BURGER HAS MORE. DANI:
ANOTHER FILING FROM ANOTHER
PRIVATE CAPITAL COMPANY, SEEING
REDEMPTIONS THAT THEY ARE
CAPPING.
THEY SAID THEY WOULD DO IT AT
5%.
CAPPING IT AT 5% DESPITE THE
FACT THAT THEY SAW AN 11.6%
WITHDRAWAL REQUEST. FROM APOLLO
OVERNIGHT AS WELCOMING DOING A
SIMILAR THING WITH MORE THAN
11%, CAPPING FUNDS AT 5%.
ELSEWHERE ON THE MOVE THIS
MORNING, JEFFRIES.
IT HAS BEEN A BACK-AND-FORTH
FOR THEM.
SFMG, THE JAPANESE BANK,
LOOKING AT A POTENTIAL TAKEOVER
OF JEFFRIES.
THEY OWN A MINORITY STAKE AND
SEE AN OPPORTUNITY TO DIVE IN
IF SHARES FALL THAT THEY WOULD
DO SO.
OUR REPORTING THIS MORNING
SUGGESTING THAT IS NOT THE
CASE, THAT THE JAPANESE BANK IS
NOT AN TALKS WITH JEFFRIES.
YOU ARE SEEING SHARES HIGHER BY
7.5%.
FINALLY, JANUS HENDERSON IN THE
TAKEOVER BATTLE OF THIS ASSET
MANAGER TRIAN, AND UPPING THE
BID TO $52 A SHARE.
THEY ALREADY AGREED TO BE
BOUGHT BY THEM BUT VICTORY
CAPITAL CAME IN AND OFFERED
SOMETHING CLOSER TO $57 PER
SHARE.
IT IS A MIX OF CASH AND STOCK.
THIS ONE FROM TRIAN IS JUST
CASH. THEY ALREADY OWN A SMALL
PORTION OF JANUS HENDERSON.
SHARES UP 3% IN THE PREMARKET.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
LOOKING FORWARD TO THE PROGRAM
ALONGSIDE MATT MILLER KICKING
OFF AT 9:00 EASTERN TIME, SO 30
MINUTES FROM NOW.
IF WE WERE NOT TALKING BUT THE
MIDDLE EAST WITH NO DOUBT WE
WOULD BE TALKING ABOUT PRIVATE
MARKETS AND PRIVATE CREDIT
WITHOUT A DOUBT THIS MORNING.
ANNMARIE:
POTENTIAL ACTION THAT WOULD BE
MOVING SOME FINANCIAL MARKETS
RIGHT NOW BUT EVERYONE IS JUST
SQUARELY FOCUSED ON A MUCH
BIGGER RISK, AND THAT IS THE
CONFLICT IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
JONATHAN:
AT THE MERCY OF THE HEADLINES
COMING FROM THE ADMINISTRATION
AND THE MIDDLE EAST COMING OUT
OF THE WEEKEND.
A FEW MORE DAYS OF TALKS AND
DE-ESCALATION OR A POTENTIAL
FOR RE-ESCALATION.
LOOKING OUT TO THE WEEK AHEAD,
DATA AND FED SPEAK THIS WEEK
FOR CLUES ON THE PATH AHEAD FOR
INTEREST RATES.
MIKE MCKEE JOINS US NOW WITH
MORE. MICHAEL:
FED OFFICIALS ARE IN THE SAME
PLACE, TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHERE WE ARE AND WHERE WE ARE
GOING, BUT WE HAVE NUMBERS THIS
MORNING SHOWING THE PATH IS A
LITTLE ROCKY.
PHILADELPHIA FED'S
NONMANUFACTURING INDEX IS OUT,
AND IT WAS EXPECTED TO BE AT
-15.7 WHICH WOULD BE AN
IMPROVEMENT FROM THE PRIOR
MONTH, BUT FOR MARCH IT IS
-23.9.
THE NUMBERS THAT PEOPLE ARE
REALLY WATCHING AROUND THE
WORLD ARE THE S&P GLOBAL
COMPOSITE PMI'S FOR MARCH.
ALL OF THEIR PMI'S, BUT
FOCUSING ON THE COMPOSITE.
YOU CAN SEE IT IN EVERY
INSTANCE IN EUROPE, THEY ALL
WENT DOWN AND ALL OF THEM ARE
REPORTING HIGHER PRICES PAID,
LOWER ORDERS, AND LOWER
EMPLOYMENT.
AT THIS POINT, WHAT IT LOOKS
LIKE IS WE ARE STARTING TO SEE
THE RED SHOOTS.
WE TALK ABOUT GREEN SHOOTS FOR
RECOVERIES, BUT IN THIS CASE
THE RED SHOOTS WITH THE IMPACT
ON THE MIDDLE EAST. WE GET OUR
NUMBERS AT 9:45 THIS MORNING.
THEY ARE ALSO EXPECTED TO SHOW
A DECLINE, ALTHOUGH NOT A BIG
ONE, BUT WE WILL SEE HOW THAT
PLAYS OUT.
MICHAEL BARR OF THE FED WILL BE
OFFERING HIS VIEWS ON THE
ECONOMY TODAY.
TOMORROW, WE GET IMPORT PRICES.
ON THURSDAY, WE GET THE JOBLESS
CLAIMS AS ALWAYS AND A LOT OF
FED SPEAK.
FRIDAY, MICHIGAN SENTIMENT.
WE WANT TO SEE WHAT CONSUMERS
ARE THINKING.
A RECENT POLL OUT YESTERDAY
SHOWED 68% OF AMERICANS THINK
THE ECONOMY IS GETTING WORSE.
70% SAY THE ECONOMY WILL BE
WORSE A YEAR FROM NOW.
SO WHAT DOES THE FED DO ABOUT
IT? RIGHT NOW, THEY ARE ALL
STEPPING TO THE SIDELINES.
AN ESSAY OUT YESTERDAY SAYING
THAT MARY DALY CANNOT GIVE
GUIDANCE ANYMORE, SHE CAN ONLY
TALK ABOUT SCENARIOS.
OFFERING TOO MUCH FOREIGN
GUIDANCE IN AN UNCERTAIN WORLD
RISKS CONVEYING A FALSE SENSE
OF CERTAINTY, REDUCING RATHER
THAN IMPROVING TRANSPARENCY AND
MAKING IT HARDER FOR THE PUBLIC
TO CLEARLY PREDICT HOW THE FOMC
WILL REACT. WE DON'T KNOW.
WE CAN'T TELL YOU.
WE ARE JUST GOING TO TELL YOU
WHAT THE POSSIBILITIES ARE, IS
BASICALLY THAT MESSAGE.
I THINK WE WILL HEAR MUCH OF
THE SAME THROUGHOUT THE REST OF
THIS WEEK FROM ALL OF THESE FED
OFFICIALS LIKE US WAITING FOR
DATA. JONATHAN:
CAN I ASK YOU, AND WHAT
SCENARIO WOULD THEY CONSIDER
HIKING INTEREST RATES?
BECAUSE EVERYONE WE SPEAK TO IN
FIXED INCOME, BASICALLY
EVERYONE THAT COMES AROUND THE
TABLE SAYS THE BAR TO HIKE IS
SO HIGH THAT IT DOES NOT MAKE
SENSE THE MARKET IS BEGINNING
TO PRICE ANY RATE HIKE IN FROM
THE FEDERAL RESERVE.
WHAT IS THE PUSHBACK TO THAT?
MICHAEL:
TWO THINGS WOULD HAVE TO HAPPEN.
INFLATION WOULD HAVE TO RISE
SIGNIFICANTLY AND FAIRLY
QUICKLY AND NOT JUST BE
HEADLINE OIL RELATED.
IF IT STARTS TO GET TO OTHER
ASPECTS OF THE ECONOMY, WHICH
IT CAN EASILY DO, THAT WOULD
START TO WORRY THE FED.
THEY WILL BE LOOKING AT
INFLATION EXPECTATIONS IF
MARKETS AND CONSUMERS START TO
THINK INFLATION IS GOING TO GET
EMBEDDED, THAT IS A PROBLEM.
THAT WOULD LEAD THEM TO RAISE
RATES.
THOSE ARE MUCH FURTHER DOWN THE
ROAD THAN MARKETS HAD BEEN
ESTIMATING EARLIER THIS WEEK,
EARLIER BEING YESTERDAY MORNING.
AND I THINK IT WILL BE A WHILE
BEFORE YOU GET ANY HIT FROM FED
OFFICIALS. JONATHAN:
IT ALREADY FEELS LIKE FRIDAY.
MICHAEL: IT IS TUESDAY, LEMON.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE IT.
THE ODDS FOR A RATE HIKE MAY BE
RISING BUT THE ODDS OF A LOT OF
RATE CUTS ARE RISING TOO.
ABIGAIL JOINS US FOR MORE.
ABIGAIL: GOOD MORNING. JONATHAN:
SURELY THEY WOULD HAVE TO CUT
BY MORE 12 OR 18 MONTHS OUT IF
THEY HIKE. ABIGAIL:
YEAH, I THINK OUR CENTS FOR THE
FOMC IS IT IS A DIFFICULT
POSITION TO BE IN TO SEE
INFLATION CONTINUING TO MOVE
AWAY FROM YOUR TARGET WHILE
SIMULTANEOUSLY YOU HAVE THE
WEAKNESS PERSISTING IN THE
LABOR MARKET AND AT THE SAME
TIME I THINK THEY HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT THE POTENTIAL DOWNSIDE
RISKS TO ACTIVITY AND GROWTH
FROM A HIGHER OIL PRICE SHOCK
AS WELL.
SO IT IS NOT NECESSARILY
ONE-SIDED, AND I WOULD SAY THE
DISTRIBUTION HAS WIDENED BUT
THE TAILS ARE ON BOTH SIDES
SO YOU HAVE TO SEE A STRONGER
RESPONSE TO THE DOWNSIDE FROM
THE FOMC. JONATHAN:
LET'S START WITH THE FORECAST
AND INFLATION.
DEUTSCHE BANK PUT OUT THESE
NUMBERS YESTERDAY.
THEY EXPECT YEAR-OVER-YEAR CPI
TO BE CLOSER TO 4% IN MAY
BEFORE DECLINING TO 3.7% BY
YEAR END.
ARE YOU LOOKING TO A SIMILAR
TRAJECTORY LOOKING OUT THE NEXT
NINE MONTHS OR SO? ABIGAIL:
I THINK WE WILL REALLY START TO
SEE THE ENERGY PRICE SHOCK IN
THE MARCH DATA.
WE HAVE THE HEADLINE PRINT
RISING 1% IN MARCH AND HEADLINE
CPI. BY THE END OF THE
YEAR, WE HAVE TAKEN UP OUR
EXPECTATIONS FOR HEADLINE
INFLATION BY AROUND 50 BASIS
POINTS SO FAR OFF THE BACK OF
THE ENERGY PRICE SHOCK.
I THINK THE KEY THING TO WATCH
IN TERMS OF INFLATION IS NOT
WHERE THE OIL PRICES ARE TODAY.
EVERYONE IS FOCUSING ON THE
MOVEMENTS ON A MINUTE BY
MINUTE, SECOND BY SECOND BASIS,
BUT WHAT MATTERS IS THE
PERSISTENCE THAT SHOCK SO WE
SHOULD BE THINKING ABOUT HOW
THE FUTURES CURVE IS SHIFTED
VERSUS WHERE IT WAS
BEFORE, RIGHT?
AT THE END OF 2026, IT IS 5,
SO 50 BASIS POINTS. ANNMARIE:
IS THAT WHAT MAKES THIS CRISIS
VERY DIFFERENT FROM WHAT WE SAW
IN 2022, BECAUSE OF THE
PERSISTENCE? ABIGAIL:
I THINK THE DIFFERENCE TO 2022
IS LESS SO ON THE SUPPLY SIDE
AND MORE SO ON THE DEMAND SIDE
IN TERMS OF THE IMPACT AND
EXPECTATIONS AND HOW THIS FEEDS
THROUGH THE ECONOMY BECAUSE THE
STARTING POINT IN 2022, YOU
WERE IN A DIFFERENT ECONOMIC
SITUATION.
YOU HAD PAYROLLS GROWTH RUNNING
ON A DIFFERENT AVERAGE.
THE STARTING POINT FOR THE
ECONOMY IS DIFFERENT.
YOU WERE COMING OUT OF THE
PANDEMIC AND HAD RELATIVELY
STRONG DEMAND, BIG FISCAL
SUPPORT FOR HOUSEHOLDS.
MONETARY POLICY WAS RELATIVELY
LOOSE.
THE STARTING POINT FOR THE
ECONOMY IS DIFFERENT ON THE
DEMAND SIDE NOW VERSUS WHERE WE
WERE IN 2022, AND THE SUPPLY
CONSTRAINTS POTENTIALLY I THINK
THE QUESTION IS HOW THEY WILL
END UP BEING.
SUPPLY CONSTRAINTS COMING OUT
OF THE PANDEMIC IN 2022, YOU
HAD THE OIL PRICE SHOCK ALONG
WITH STRAINS ON THE BACK OF THE
PANDEMIC.
IT IS DEPENDENT ON THE BREADTH
OF THOSE CONSTRAINTS AND THE
STARTING POINT TO DEMAND.
ANNMARIE:
WHAT MARY DALY IS TALKING ABOUT
IN TERMS OF HOW DIFFICULT THIS
MOMENT IS FOR THE FED TO REALLY
DICTATE WHERE THEY ARE GOING,
SHOULD SPRINKLE ON TOP OF THAT
NEW LEADERSHIP AT THE FEDERAL
RESERVE.
THE NEXT FEW MONTHS, HOW
CHALLENGING WILL IT BE TO
UNDERSTAND THE DIRECTION OF
POLICYMAKERS? ABIGAIL:
YEAH, I THINK IT IS REALLY
CHALLENGING AND YOU SAW THIS
NOT JUST FROM MARY DALY BUT IN
JAY POWELL'S PRESS CONFERENCE .
THERE WAS A LOT OF FOCUS ON
INFLATION RIGHTLY SO FROM THE
QUESTIONING, AND THAT MEANT
WHEN YOU GOT THE MESSAGE FROM
JAY POWELL THAT WAS FOCUSED ON
THE INFLATION SIDE, BUT I THINK
FOR THEM IT WILL BE BALANCING
THE MESSAGE OF WHAT THEY ARE
SEEING IN THE DATA.
ARE THEY SEEING CONSUMERS
SLOWING?
WHICH WILL BE A KEY THING AS
THEY THINK ABOUT THE WEAKNESS
IN THE LABOR MARKET AND THE
BALANCE BETWEEN THE TWO.
JONATHAN:
IT IS NOT A GREAT TIME TO HAVE
CONTESTED LEADERSHIP AT THE
FEDERAL RESERVE.
I HAVE NO IDEA WHO WILL CHAIR
THE MEETING FOR JUNE.
DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA OF THE
SCENARIOS ABOUT WHAT LEADERSHIP
LOOKS LIKE THROUGH THE SUMMER?
ABIGAIL:
YEAH, SO IT IS CHALLENGING.
OUR BASE CASE IS WARSH IS PUT
IN PLACE AND TAKES OVER FROM
POWELL. JONATHAN: AT SOME POINT.
ABIGAIL:
IT IS CHALLENGING TO KNOW HOW
THAT WILL COME THROUGH AND
WHETHER YOU SEE MORE OF A
HOLDUP IN THE SENATE
CONFIRMATION PROCESS.
OBVIOUSLY, CHAIR POWELL WAS
QUITE CLEAR LAST WEEK HE PLANS
TO STAY ON AS A GOVERNOR AS
WELL UNTIL THE LEGAL MATTERS
ARE DEALT WITH.
HE CAN STAY UNTIL JANUARY 2028.
THAT IS WHEN HIS TERM AS
GOVERNOR ENDS.
I THINK IT IS NOT UNPRECEDENTED
TO SEE PEOPLE REMAIN ON THE
BOARD.
IT IS NOT COMMON, BUT IT IS NOT
UNPRECEDENTED.
I THINK IT IS INTERESTING.
WE KNEW THIS YEAR WE WOULD SEE
A CHANGE IN THE MIX OF THE FOMC
AND THE COMPOSITION OF THE FOMC.
COMING INTO THIS YEAR, IT WAS
ONE OF THE THINGS WE HAVE BEEN
FACTORING IN AS PEOPLE WILL
HAVE TO DIGEST A NEW FED CHAIR
AND A CHANGE IN THE COMMITTEE.
JONATHAN:
IT IS A QUIETER MARKET MORNING
SO WE HAVE TIME FOR THIS.I
WONDER WHAT THIS WILL LOOK LIKE.
LET'S SAY THE CHAIRMAN SAYS HE
IS STAYING ON, DOJ
INVESTIGATION WRAPPED UP, KEVIN
WARSH CONFIRMED, AND HE IS
WORRIED ABOUT INDEPENDENCE, AND
WE ALL KNOW THAT IS WHY HE IS
STAYING ON BECAUSE HE IS
WORRIED ABOUT CENTRAL-BANK
INDEPENDENCE.
DOES THAT CHANGE YOUR OPINION
ON HOW THE POLICY WILL BE UNDER
CHAIR KEVIN WARSH?
THAT WE HAVE A MEMBER THERE.
DOES THAT CONTRIBUTE TO HOW WE
VOTE ON INTEREST RATES?
THOSE ARE THE THINGS I AM TRY
TO WORK OUT THE NEXT 12 MONTHS
OR SO. ABIGAIL:
I THINK THEY WILL REACT TO THE
ECONOMY.
I THINK THE FOMC WILL SET
MONETARY POLICY ON THE BASIS OF
THE CONDITIONS OF THE ECONOMY
AND WHAT THE ECONOMY REQUIRES.
RIGHT?
WE STARTED THIS CONVERSATION
WITH YOU TALKING ABOUT THE
RISKS OF MUCH MORE CUTTING SO I
THINK THE COMMITTEE WILL BE
ASKED TO WHAT THEY SEE IN THE
ECONOMY AND WHAT THEY THINK
WILL HAPPEN IN THE ECONOMY.
I THINK THAT IS THE BEST WAY
FOR THEM TO BE INDEPENDENT.
RIGHT?
THEY REACT TO WHAT THEY THINK
THEY NEED TO SET MONETARY
POLICY TO ON THE BASIS OF WHAT
THE U.S. ECONOMY NEEDS.
ANNMARIE:
IT WOULD BE POLITICAL FOR JAY
POWELL TO STAY ON.
TO THINK HE IS PROTECTING FED
INDEPENDENCE, HE WOULD THEN BE
POLITICIZING IT.
IT IS NOT UNPRECEDENTED, BUT IT
IS HIGHLY UNUSUAL FOR THE
CHAIRMAN TO STAY ON THE BOARD.
USUALLY, YOU EXIT STAGE LEFT,
SOMEONE ELSE COMES IN, AND YOU
GIVE THEM SOME BREATHING ROOM
TO RUN THE FED. JONATHAN:
THE OPTICS WOULD NOT BE GOOD.
LET'S PUT IT THAT WAY.
ABIGAIL, GOOD TO SEE YOU, THANK
YOU.
IT IS A QUIETER MORNING ON WALL
STREET COMPARED TO YESTERDAY.
COMPARED TO YESTERDAY,
EVERYTHING IS QUIET.
S&P PULLING BACK BY 0.5% ON THE
S&P 500. THAT IS A SMALL DECLINE
RELATIVE TO SOME OF THE WILD
SWINGS WE HAVE SEEN RECENTLY.
YIELDS PUSHING HIGHER.
TWOS UP BY FOUR BASIS POINTS.
THE COMMODITY MARKET ADDING TO
GAINS. WTI UP TO $91.75.
WITHIN AN UPDATE ON STORIES
WORLDWIDE THIS MORNING, YOUR
BLOOMBERG BRIEF. YAHAIRA:
SECRETARY OF STATE MARCO RUBIO
HEADING TO FRANCE ON FRIDAY FOR
A G7 FOREIGN AFFAIRS MEETING.
ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL
STATEMENT, RUBIO WILL DISCUSS
THE SITUATION IN IRAN AS WELL
AS THE RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR WITH
'S G7 COUNTERPARTS.
UNITED AIRLINES IS LAUNCHING
ITS BIGGEST FLEETS REJUVENATION
IN ITS HISTORY.
THE AIRLINE IS AIMING TO TAKE
DELIVERY OF MORE THAN 250
AIRCRAFT BY APRIL 2028 AND
UPGRADE FLIGHTS WITH LIE FLAT
SEATS TYPICALLY RESERVED FOR
INTERNATIONAL SERVICE.
OUR VERY OWN LISA ABRAMOWICZ
WILL BE SPEAKING WITH THE
UNITED CEO TODAY AT 10:30 A.M.
EASTERN.
MARCH MADNESS OFF TO A STRONG
START ON TV.
VIEWERSHIP FOR THE NCAA
TOURNAMENT OFF TO ITS BEST
START ON RECORD.
NIELSEN REPORTING A 5% INCREASE
IN THE FIRST THREE DAYS LAST
WEEK. THE PRIMETIME GAMES, WHICH
INCLUDED THE WIN OVER NORTH
CAROLINA, AVERAGED 12.5
MILLION, MAKING IT THE
MOST-WATCHED FIRST ROUND
INTERNMENT HISTORY.
THAT IS YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF.
JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
UP NEXT, WE WILL SET YOU UP FOR
THE DAY AHEAD AND CATCH UP WITH
THE CISCO PRESIDENT AND CHIEF
PRODUCT OFFICER HIGHLIGHTING A
MASSIVE AI TRANSITION.
♪
>> THE MARKET IS VACILLATING
BETWEEN WHAT THE FED WILL DO.
WHAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT IS TO
TAKE A STEP BACK, TO US IT
FEELS LIKE A LOW HIGHER, LOW
FIRE MARKET.
WHAT WE'VE HAD AS AN SUPPLY
SHOCK. JONATHAN:
SOME OF THE VALUE BEING CREATED
ON FIXED INCOME SOME MAJOR
MOVES ACROSS THE CURVE.
CHOOSE BRIEFLY TO 4%, ATTENDS
THROUGH 4.40.
WE'VE GONE THROUGH THE UPPER
END OF THE RANGE FOR THE YEAR
2026 AND A NEW HIGH IN THE LAST
ONE HE FOUR HOURS.
WE HAD A BIG TURNAROUND IN THE
EQUITY MARKET AS WELL.
EQUITY FUTURES IN THE S&P 500
SLIGHTLY SOFTER INTO THE
OPENING BELL.
LIKEWISE ON THE NASDAQ DOWN BY
0.7 ON THE RUSSELL SO SOFT
GOING INTO THE CASH OPEN.
THE BOND MARKET TWOS, ATTENDS
AND 30'S YIELDS BOUNCING BACK
AS WELL BY FOUR BASIS POINTS.
TWOS BACK TO AROUND 3.90.
WE ARE BACK TO ABOUT $92 A
BARREL ON BRENT. ANNMARIE:
STILL MORE RISKS PRICED IN EVEN
THOUGH THE PRESIDENT TRIED TO
DE-ESCALATE AFTER WHAT HE SAID
WAS GOING TO BE THIS THREAT.
NOW THIS BIG RISK WILL BE
FRIDAY AND A LOT OF INDIVIDUALS
ARE WAKING UP TO THE FACT
POTENTIALLY THIS IS NOT REAL
ERNEST ENGAGEMENT, THIS IS JUST
THE PRESIDENT TRYING TO BUY
SOME TIME BECAUSE THERE ARE
MARINES HEADED TO THE REGION
RIGHT NOW. JONATHAN:
BIG EVENTS CIRCLED ON THE
CALENDAR.
TRADING DIARY SET UP, PMI DATA,
A MIKE MCKEE TALKING ABOUT THIS
AS STAGFLATION REMIX AND PMI
DATA.
WHAT WILL WE SEE, LOOK OUT FOR
COVERAGE OF THAT ON BLOOMBERG
TV.
FED SPEAK ON THURSDAY, THE G7
FOREIGNERS MEETING IN PARIS.
FRIDAY CONSUMER SENTIMENT, LOTS
OF THAT SENTIMENT STORY SHAPED
BY WHAT HAPPENS IN ENERGY.
I THINK WERE LOOKING FOR A
DRAMATIC READ ON THAT.
SECRETARY RUBIO PART OF THOSE
CONVERSATIONS WITH G7 FOREIGN
MINISTERS INTO THE WEEKEND.
>> WE HEARD FROM KEIR STARMER
HIS OFFICE SAYING THEY DO THINK
THERE ARE REAL NEGOTIATIONS
UNDERWAY.
WHAT ARE EUROPEAN ALLIES
THINKING AND GOING TO BE SAYING
DIRECTLY TO SECRETARY RUBIO WHO
HAS NOT BEEN OUT FRONT WHEN IT
COMES TO THIS CONFLICT.
WE HEARD FROM THE ENERGY
SECRETARY, THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENT, SCOTT BESSENT HAS
BEEN MAKING A LOT OF HEADLINES
IN TERMS OF THIS CONFLICT.
WE HAVE NOT HEARD THE
PRESIDENT'S TOP DIPLOMAT.
>> JONATHAN: AN ENERGY SHOCK
AND FED OFFICIALS ALSO WITH THE
FRAGILE LABOR MARKET AS MORE
COMPANIES BEGIN USING AGENTIC
AI AI.
G2 PATEL DELIVERING THE KEYNOTE
SPEECH AT THE CONFERENCE
HIGHLIGHTING ADVANCES IN
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND
SAYING A MASSIVE TRANSITION IS
HAPPENING, A TRANSITION FROM
USING PASSIVE CHATBOTS TO
AUTONOMOUS AGENTS CAPABLE OF
PERFORMING REAL-WORLD WORKFLOWS.
I'M PLEASED TO SAY HE JOINS US
FOR MORE.
THANK YOU FOR MAKING TIME WITH
US. WHAT WAS THE ESSENCE OF THE
MESSAGE YOU DELIVER JUST
RECENTLY.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME ON
THE SHOW.
THIS IS AN EXCITING TIME AND AT
THE SAME TIME A VERY
DISORIENTING AND CONCERNING
TIME IN AI IN THE SENSE THAT WE
ARE MOVING SQUARELY FROM THIS
ERA OF CHATBOTS TO NOW THE
SECOND PHASE OF AI WHICH IS AN
ERA OF AGENTS WHERE THESE
AGENTS WILL CONDUCT TASKS AND
JOBS.
THE CHALLENGE WITH THESE AGENTS
IS THEY ARE KIND OF LIKE
TEENAGERS.
THEY ARE NOT COMPLETELY MATURE
YET. THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
DELEGATION AND TRUSTED
DELEGATION COMPLETE THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN BANKRUPTCY
AND MARKET DIFFERENCE.
WE REALLY WANT TO TALK ABOUT
THE TOUGH SAFETY AND SECURITY
AS IT PERTAINS TO THOSE AGENTS
AND MAKE SURE THAT THESE AGENTS
HAVE GUARDRAILS SO THAT THEY
DON'T JUST GO AWRY. JONATHAN:
YOU'VE TOUCHED ON IT, THE TWO
DIMENSIONS OF THIS.
WHICH DO YOU THINK IS HARDER,
PROTECTING THE WORLD FROM
AGENTS OR PROTECTING AGENTS
FROM THE WORLD? JEETU:
BOTH ARE EQUALLY HARD AND WE
HAVE TO MAKE SURE YOU ACTUALLY
DON'T CHOOSE ONE OR THE OTHER.
THERE'S THREE AREAS THAT NEED
TO BE THOUGHT ABOUT.
PROTECTING THE WORLD FROM
AGENTS.
MAKING SURE THAT THE AGENTS
CANNOT BE EXTERNALLY
MANIPULATED TO DO THINGS YOU
DON'T WANT TO DO.
THE SECOND IS MAKING SURE THAT
YOU HAVE THE WORLD PROTECTED
FROM AGENTS.
IF THEY START
GOING OUT AND BEHAVING IN A WAY
YOU DON'T WANT THEM TO, YOU CAN
DYNAMICALLY INTERCEPT SOME
GUARDRAILS.
THESE ADVERSARIES AND THREAT
ACTORS WE SEE ARE ALSO GOING TO
BE USING THESE AGENTS AND THEY
WILL WORK SEVEN BY 24 TO TRY
AND ATTACK US.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE WE CAN
HANDLE THOSE ATTACKS.
WE NEED TO HAVE AGENTS IN OUR
SECURITY OPERATION CENTER TO
MAKE SURE THEY CAN CATCH
THREATS EFFICIENTLY AS WELL.
IF YOU LEAVE ANY
ONE OF THEM OUT IT DOES NOT
BODE THAT WELL. JONATHAN:
THERE IS A CONCERN AS PEOPLE
THROW MONEY AT THIS THIS WILL
ULTIMATELY REPLACE REAL PEOPLE.
WHAT SCENARIO DO YOU ENVISION?
A SITUATION DOING MORE WITH
FEWER PEOPLE, WITH THE SAME
AMOUNT OF PEOPLE OR DO WE GO
ALL OVER THE PLACE. JEETU:
WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT THIS FOR
MANY YEARS, BUT THE WAY I THINK
ABOUT THIS IS THEIR IS
DEFINITIVELY GOING TO BE A
POINT OF PRODUCTIVITY INCREASE.
YOU CAN DO THE SAME AMOUNT OF
WORK WITH LESS PEOPLE AND
SECOND IS YOU DO INFINITELY
MORE AMOUNT OF WORK WITH THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE YOU HAVE.
THE TRUTH WILL BE SOMEWHERE IN
THE MIDDLE.
SOME JOBS WILL BE LOST,
VIRTUALLY EVERY JOB WILL GET
RECONFIGURED AND THEN YOU'LL
HAVE ENTIRELY NEW INDUSTRIES
THAT GET CREATED WHICH WOULDN'T
HAVE GOTTEN CREATED IF IT
WEREN'T AROUND. JONATHAN:
AT THE MOMENT WERE DEALING WITH
A MASSIVE ENERGY SHOCK.
I WANT TO UNDERSTAND FROM YOUR
PERSPECTIVE HOW CYCLICAL THE
SPEND IS AT THE MOMENT BECAUSE
THERE IS A HOPE IN TECHNOLOGY
AND PEOPLE ON THE STORIES THAT
THESE ARE SUBTLER TAILWINDS,
BUT THE CYCLE DOESN'T MATTER IN
THE MONEY WILL KEEP FLOWING.
COULD THIS BE DISRUPTED BY THE
SHOCK WE ARE WITNESSING IN THE
MIDDLE EAST? JEETU:
THE WAY I THINK ABOUT THIS IS
THIS IS A SECULAR TAILWIND, WE
HAVE TO KEEP A FEW THINGS IN
MIND. THE FIRST IS WHAT ARE THE
IMPEDIMENTS THAT COULD HOLD IT
BACK.
THERE ARE THREE THINGS I COULD
HOLD AI BACK.
THE FIRST IS AN INFRASTRUCTURE
CONSTRAINT.
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH POWER,
COMPUTE TO SATIATE THE NEEDS OF
AI.
WE HAVE A HUGE TRUST DEFICIT.
IF WE DON'T TRUST THESE SYSTEMS
ARE NOT TO USE THEM SO TRUST
BECOMES A PREREQUISITE FOR AN
ACCELERATED ADOPTION CYCLE.
AND THE THIRD IS WE HAVE A DATA
GAP. THESE AGENTS NEED TO BE
ENRICHED WITH CONTEXT.
YOU AND I ON A DAILY BASIS TAKE
TRILLIONS OF TOKENS OF CONTEXT
FROM OUR VISION, FROM OUR SOUND
AND THAT'S HOW WE OPERATE IN A
DAY. IF YOU DON'T GIVE THAT
ENRICHMENT THEY WILL STILL MAKE
DECISIONS, THEY WILL JUST MAKE
DECISIONS THAT ARE UNINFORMED.
WE NEED TO MAKE SURE WE ENRICH
THEM WITH CONTEXT.
THOSE OF THE THREE AREAS.
WE HAVE, ARE THESE SECULAR OR
KIND OF SPIKES.
THE WAY I SEE IT IS IN THE LONG
RUN SEVEN TO 10 YEAR WINDOW I
THINK WE ARE UNDERESTIMATING
THE AMOUNT OF INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT WILL BE NEEDED RIGHT NOW.
IT WILL BE ABOUT A $5 TRILLION
BUILDOUT THAT HAPPENS OVER THE
COURSE OF THE NEXT FEW YEARS.
WE ARE ESTIMATING THE BUILDOUT
OVER THE COURSE OF THE LONG RUN
IF YOU THINK OF THE COURSE OF
THE LONG RUN THERE MAY BE SOME
SPIKES. JONATHAN:
GOOD TO CATCH UP AND SEE YOU.
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF PRODUCT
OFFICER PARADE FROM NEW YORK
CITY, GOOD MORNING.
THIS WAS BLOOMBERG SURVEILLANCE.